---
surnom_texte_lvl1: Prospectus
surnom_texte_lvl2: Published Info
texte: 2019R0980
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2017R1129
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2019R0980_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2019R0980_FR.26]]. Back to [[2017R1129_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02019R0980-20200917).
>
> [[2019R0980_EN.25|Article 25 – Format of a base prospectus]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2019R0980_EN.27|Article 27 – Prospectus summary]]
>



# Article 26 - Information to be included in the base prospectus and the final terms

## 1.
The information referred to as ‘*[[2019R0980_EN.1#1.|Category A]]*’ in Annexes 14 to 19 and 27 to this Regulation shall be included in the base prospectus.
## 2.
The information referred to as ‘*[[2019R0980_EN.1#2.|Category B]]*’ in Annexes 14 to 19 and 27 to this Regulation shall be included in the base prospectus except for details of that information that are not known at the time of approval of that base prospectus. Such details shall be inserted in the final terms.
## 3.
The information referred to as ‘*[[2019R0980_EN.1#3.|Category C]]*’ in Annexes 14 to 19 and 27 to this Regulation shall be inserted in the final terms, unless it is known at the time of approval of the base prospectus, in which case it may be inserted in that base prospectus instead.
## 4.
In addition to the information referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article, the final terms may only contain the information referred to in Annex 28 to this Regulation. The form of the final terms referred to in [[2017R1129_EN.8#2#a|Article 8(2)(a) of Regulation (EU) 2017/1129]] shall indicate which of the information referred to in Annex 28 to this Regulation is to be determined in the final terms.
## 5.
The final terms shall not contradict the information included in the base prospectus.