---
surnom_texte_lvl1: Prospectus
surnom_texte_lvl2: Published Info
texte: 2019R0980
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2017R1129
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2019R0980_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2019R0980_FR.25]]. Back to [[2017R1129_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02019R0980-20200917).
>
> [[2019R0980_EN.24|Article 24 – Format of a prospectus]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2019R0980_EN.26|Article 26 – Information to be included in the base prospectus and the final terms]]
>



# Article 25 - Format of a base prospectus

## 1.
A base prospectus drawn up as a single document shall be composed of the following elements set out in the following order:
### (a)
a table of contents;
### (b)
a general description of the offering programme;
### (c)
the risk factors referred to in [[2017R1129_EN.16|Article 16 of Regulation (EU) 1129/2017]];
### (d)
any other information referred to in the Annexes to this Regulation that is to be included in the base prospectus.

The issuer, offeror or person asking for admission to trading on a regulated market may decide the order in which the information referred to in the Annexes to this Regulation is set out in the base prospectus.
## 2.
Where a base prospectus is drawn up as separate documents, the registration document and the securities note shall be composed of the following elements set out in the following order:
### (a)
a table of contents;
### (b)
in the securities note, a general description of the offering programme;
### (c)
the risk factors referred to in [[2017R1129_EN.16|Article 16 of Regulation (EU) 1129/2017]];
### (d)
any other information referred to in the Annexes to this Regulation that is to be included in the registration document and the securities note.

The issuer, offeror or person asking for admission to trading on a regulated market may decide the order in which the information referred to in the Annexes to this Regulation is set out in the registration document and the securities note.
## 3.
An issuer, offeror or person asking for admission to trading on a regulated market may compile in one single document two or more base prospectuses.
## 4.
Where the registration document is drawn up in the form of a universal registration document, the issuer may include the risks factors referred to in point (c) of paragraph 2 amongst the information referred to in point (d) of that paragraph provided that those risk factors remain identifiable as a single section.
## 5.
Where a universal registration document is used for the purposes of [[2017R1129_EN.9#12|Article 9(12) of Regulation (EU) 1129/2017]], the information referred to in that Article shall be presented in accordance with Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2019/815.
## 6.
Where the order of the information referred to in point (d) of paragraphs 1 and 2 is different from the order in which that information is presented in the Annexes to this Regulation, competent authorities may request to provide a list of cross references indicating the items of those Annexes to which that information corresponds.

The list of cross references referred to in the first subparagraph shall identify any items set out in the Annexes to this Regulation that have not been included in the draft base prospectus due to the nature or type of issuer, securities, offer or admission to trading.
## 7.
Where no list of cross-references is requested in accordance with paragraph 6 or is not voluntarily submitted by the issuer, offeror or person asking for admission to trading on a regulated market, it shall be indicated in the margin of the draft base prospectus to which information in the draft base prospectus the relevant information items set out in the Annexes to this Regulation correspond.