---
surnom_texte_lvl1: CSDR
surnom_texte_lvl2: Settlement Disci
texte: 2018R1229
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014R0909
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2018R1229_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2018R1229_FR.31]]. Back to [[2014R0909_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02018R1229-20240902).
>
> [[2018R1229_EN.30|Article 30 – Initial verification]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2018R1229_EN.32|Article 32 – Calculation of the cash compensation]]
>

# Article 31 - Buy-in procedure and notifications

## 1.
Where the buy-in is possible, the receiving trading party shall appoint a buy-in agent on the business day following the expiry of the extension period and notify the failing trading party thereof.
## 2.
Upon receipt of the notification referred to in paragraph 1, the failing trading party shall ensure that any relevant settlement instruction relating to the settlement fail is put on hold.
## 3.
Upon receipt of the notification referred to in paragraph 1, the failing trading party may only deliver the financial instruments to the buy-in agent where the buy-in agent gives its prior consent.

Prior to the receipt of the notification referred to in paragraph 1, the failing trading party may still deliver the financial instruments directly to the receiving trading party.
## 4.
The receiving trading party shall notify the results of the buy-in to the failing trading party at the latest on the last business day of the applicable period determined in accordance with [[2018R1229_EN.37|Article 37]]. The receiving trading party shall ensure that the relevant CSD receives the information notified without undue delay.
## 5.
Where the buy-in is successful in part or in full, the notification referred to in paragraph 4 shall include the quantity and price of the bought-in financial instruments.
## 6.
Where the buy-in fails in part or in full, the notification referred to in paragraph 4 shall include the cash compensation amount calculated in accordance with [[2018R1229_EN.32|Article 32]], unless that notification specifies that the execution of the buy-in is deferred.
## 7.
Where the execution of the buy-in is deferred, the receiving trading party shall notify the results of that deferred buy-in to the failing trading party at the latest on the last business day of the deferral period referred to in [[2018R1229_EN.38|Article 38]]. The receiving trading party shall ensure that the relevant CSD receives the information notified without undue delay.
## 8.
Where the buy-in referred to in paragraph 7 is successful in part or in full, the notification referred to in that paragraph shall include the quantity and price of the bought-in financial instruments.
## 9.
Where the buy-in referred to in paragraph 7 fails in part or in full, the notification referred to in that paragraph shall include the cash compensation amount calculated in accordance with [[2018R1229_EN.32|Article 32]].
## 10.
The receiving trading party shall accept and pay for the bought-in financial instruments referred to in paragraphs 5 and 8.
## 11.
The receiving and the failing trading parties shall ensure that the following is carried out at the end of each business day on which the receiving trading party receives the instruments referred to in paragraphs 5 and 8:
### (a)
the settlement instructions relating to the settlement fail are cancelled;
### (b)
the new settlement instructions are entered into the securities settlement system for any non-delivered financial instruments and the CSD receives the information necessary to identify such new settlement instructions accordingly.
## 12.
The failing trading party shall pay the cash compensation referred to in paragraphs 6 and 9 in accordance with [[2018R1229_EN.33#3|Article 33(3)]].
## 13.
The failing and receiving trading parties shall ensure that the relevant settlement instructions relating to the settlement fail are cancelled upon payment of the cash compensation referred to in paragraphs 6 and 9 or at the latest on the second business day after the notification of the amount of that cash compensation.