---
surnom_texte_lvl1: CSDR
surnom_texte_lvl2: Settlement Disci
texte: 2018R1229
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014R0909
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2018R1229_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2018R1229_FR.16]]. Back to [[2014R0909_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02018R1229-20240902).
>
> [[2018R1229_EN.15|Article 15 – Public disclosure on settlement fails]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2018R1229_EN.17|Article 17 – Collection and distribution of cash penalties]]
>

> [!tip]- References LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2014R0909_EN.7#2]]

# Article 16 - Calculation and application of cash penalties

## 1.
The cash penalties referred to in [[2014R0909_EN.7#2|Article 7(2) of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014]] shall be calculated and applied by CSDs for each settlement instruction that fails to settle.

The calculation referred to in the first subparagraph shall include settlement instructions that have been put on hold by a participant.

Where matching is required pursuant to [[2018R1229_EN.5#2|Article 5(2)]], cash penalties shall only be applied to matched settlement instructions.
## 2.
Cash penalties shall be calculated and applied at the end of each business day where the settlement instruction fails to settle.
## 3.
Where a settlement instruction has been entered into the securities settlement system or has been matched after the intended settlement date, cash penalties shall be calculated and applied as from the intended settlement date.

Where new settlement instructions are entered into the securities settlement system for any non-delivered financial instruments in accordance with [[2018R1229_EN.27#10|Article 27(10)]], [[2018R1229_EN.29#11|Article 29(11)]] or [[2018R1229_EN.31#11|Article 31(11)]], cash penalties shall apply to the new settlement instructions from the day those instructions are entered into the securities settlement system.

Where settlement instructions have been matched after the intended settlement date, cash penalties for the period between the intended settlement date and the business day prior to the day on which matching has taken place shall be paid by the last participant who has entered or modified the relevant settlement instruction in the securities settlement system.
## 4.
CSDs shall provide each relevant participant with the details of the calculation of the penalties for each failed settlement instruction on a daily basis, including details on the account to which each failed settlement instruction refers.