---
surnom_texte_lvl1: CSDR
surnom_texte_lvl2: Settlement Disci
texte: 2018R1229
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014R0909
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2018R1229_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2018R1229_FR.25]]. Back to [[2014R0909_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02018R1229-20240902).
>
> [[2018R1229_EN.24|Article 24 – Buy-in agent]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2018R1229_EN.26|Article 26 – Initial verification]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2014R0909_EN.7]]# Article 25 - Contractual arrangements and procedures

## 1.
Parties in the settlement chain shall establish contractual arrangements with their relevant counterparties that incorporate the buy-in process requirements specified in paragraph 2 and the procedures specified in paragraph 3.
## 2.
The contractual arrangements referred to in paragraph 1 shall fully incorporate the applicable requirements set out in [[2014R0909_EN.7|Article 7 of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014]] and Articles [[2018R1229_EN.26|26]] to 38 of this Regulation. Each party in the settlement chain shall ensure that the contractual arrangements established with its relevant counterparties are enforceable in all relevant jurisdictions.
## 3.
CCPs, clearing members, trading venue members or trading parties shall establish the necessary procedures to execute the buy-in, pay the cash compensation, the price difference and the buy-in costs within the required timeframes. The contractual arrangements and the procedures referred to in this Article shall include the necessary provisions to ensure that the relevant parties in the settlement chain receive the information required to exercise their rights and obligations in accordance with the timeframes specified in Articles [[2018R1229_EN.26|26]] to 35 of this Regulation.
## 4.
The participants shall establish the necessary contractual arrangements with their clients to ensure that the buy-in requirements set out in this Regulation are enforceable in all the jurisdictions to which parties in the settlement chain belong.
## 5.
The bought-in financial instruments may only be considered as delivered for the purposes of [[2018R1229_EN.27|Article 27]], Article 29 and [[2018R1229_EN.31|Article 31]] where those instruments have been received in the securities settlement system operated by the CSD by the receiving participants acting on behalf of the CCP, the receiving clearing members, trading venue members or trading parties.
## 6.
The cash compensation referred to in [[2018R1229_EN.33|Article 33]] and the price difference referred to in [[2018R1229_EN.35#1|Article 35(1)]] may only be considered as paid where the cash payment has been received by the receiving participants acting on behalf of the CCP, the receiving clearing members, trading venue members or trading parties.