---
surnom_texte_lvl1: EMIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: EMIR 2.2
texte: 2012R0648EMIR 2.2
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 4
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0648
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2012R0648EMIR 2.2_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2012R0648EMIR 2.2_FR.54]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02012R0648-20200101).
>
> [[2012R0648EMIR 2.2_EN.53|Article 53 – Provision of margins among CCPs]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2012R0648EMIR 2.2_EN.55|Article 55 – Registration of a trade repository]]
>

# Article 54 - Approval of interoperability arrangements

## 1.
An interoperability arrangement shall be subject to the prior approval of the competent authorities of the CCPs involved. The procedure under Article 17 shall apply.
## 2.
The competent authorities shall grant approval of the interoperability arrangement only where the CCPs involved have been authorised to clear under Article 17 or recognised under Article 25 or authorised under a pre-existing national authorisation regime for a period of at least three years, the requirements laid down in Article 52 are met and the technical conditions for clearing transactions under the terms of the arrangement allow for a smooth and orderly functioning of financial markets and the arrangement does not undermine the effectiveness of supervision.
## 3.
Where a competent authority considers that the requirements laid down in paragraph 2 are not met, it shall provide explanations in writing regarding its risk considerations to the other competent authorities and the CCPs involved. It shall also notify ESMA, which shall issue an opinion on the effective validity of the risk considerations as grounds for denial of the interoperability arrangement. ESMA’s opinion shall be made available to all the CCPs involved. Where ESMA’s opinion differs from the assessment of the relevant competent authority, that competent authority shall reconsider its position, taking into account ESMA’s opinion.
## 4.
By 31 December 2012, ESMA shall issue guidelines or recommendations with a view to establishing consistent, efficient and effective assessments of interoperability arrangements, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010.

ESMA shall develop drafts of those guidelines or recommendations after consulting the members of the ESCB.

TITLE VI

REGISTRATION AND SUPERVISION OF TRADE REPOSITORIES

Conditions and procedures for registration of a trade repository
