---
surnom_texte_lvl1: EMIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: EMIR 2.2
texte: 2012R0648EMIR 2.2
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 4
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0648
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2012R0648EMIR 2.2_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French version: [[2012R0648EMIR 2.2_FR.38]]. Open the [[CELEX_02012R0648-20200101_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02012R0648-20200101).
>
> [[2012R0648EMIR 2.2_EN.37|Article 37 – Participation requirements]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2012R0648EMIR 2.2_EN.39|Article 39 – Segregation and portability]]
>



# Article 38 - Transparency

## 1.
A CCP and its clearing members shall publicly disclose the prices and fees associated with the services provided. They shall disclose the prices and fees of each service provided separately, including discounts and rebates and the conditions to benefit from those reductions. A CCP shall allow its clearing members and, where relevant, their clients separate access to the specific services provided.

A CCP shall account separately for costs and revenues of the services provided and shall disclose that information to the competent authority.
## 2.
A CCP shall disclose to clearing members and clients the risks associated with the services provided.
## 3.
A CCP shall disclose to its clearing members and to its competent authority the price information used to calculate its end-of-day exposures to its clearing members.

A CCP shall publicly disclose the volumes of the cleared transactions for each class of instruments cleared by the CCP on an aggregated basis.
## 4.
A CCP shall publicly disclose the operational and technical requirements relating to the communication protocols covering content and message formats it uses to interact with third parties, including the operational and technical requirements referred to in [[2012R0648EMIR 2.2_EN.7|Article 7]].
## 5.
A CCP shall publicly disclose any breaches by clearing members of the criteria referred to in [[2012R0648EMIR 2.2_EN.37#1|Article 37(1)]] and the requirements laid down in paragraph 1 of this Article, except where the competent authority, after consulting ESMA, considers that such disclosure would constitute a threat to financial stability or to market confidence or would seriously jeopardise the financial markets or cause disproportionate damage to the parties involved.
## 6.
A CCP shall provide its clearing members with a simulation tool allowing them to determine the amount of additional initial margin, on a gross basis, that the CCP may require upon the clearing of a new transaction. That tool shall only be accessible on a secured access basis, and the results of the simulation shall not be binding.
## 7.
A CCP shall provide its clearing members with information on the initial margin models it uses. That information shall:

(a) clearly explain the design of the initial margin model and how it operates;

(b) clearly describe the key assumptions and limitations of the initial margin model and the circumstances under which those assumptions are no longer valid;

(c) be documented.
