---
surnom_texte_lvl1: EMIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: EMIR 2.2
texte: 2012R0648EMIR 2.2
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 4
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0648
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-09
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2012R0648EMIR 2.2_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2012R0648EMIR 2.2_FR.82]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02012R0648-20200101).
>
> [[2012R0648EMIR 2.2_EN.81|Article 81 – Transparency and data availability]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2012R0648EMIR 2.2_EN.83|Article 83 – Professional secrecy]]
>

# Article 82 - Exercise of the delegation

## 1.
The power to adopt delegated acts is conferred to the Commission subject to the conditions laid down in this Article.
## 2.
The power to adopt delegated acts referred to in Articles 1(6), Article 4(3a), Article 25(2a), Article 25(6a), Article 25a(3), Article 25d(3), Article 25i(7), Article 25o, Article 64(7), Article 70, Article 72(3), and Article 85(2) shall be conferred to the Commission for an indeterminate period of time.
## 3.
The delegation of power referred to in Article 1(6), Article 4(3a), Article 25(2a), Article 25(6a), Article 25a(3), Article 25d(3), Article 25i(7), Article 25o, Article 64(7), Article 70, Article 72(3) and Article 85(2) may be revoked at any time by the European Parliament or by the Council. A decision to revoke shall put an end to the delegation of the power specified in that decision. It shall take effect the day following the publication of the decision in the Official Journal of the European Union or at a later date specified therein. It shall not affect the validity of any delegated acts already in force.
## 4.
Before adopting a delegated act, the Commission shall endeavour to consult ESMA and shall consult experts designated by each Member State in accordance with the principles laid down in the Interinstitutional Agreement of 13 April 2016 on Better Law-Making.
## 5.
As soon as it adopts a delegated act, the Commission shall notify it simultaneously to the European Parliament and to the Council.
## 6.
A delegated act adopted pursuant to Article 1(6), Article 4(3a), Article 25(2a), Article 25(6a), Article 25a(3), Article 25d(3), Article 25i(7), Article 25o, Article 64(7), Article 70, Article 72(3) and Article 85(2) shall enter into force only if no objection has been expressed either by the European Parliament or the Council within a period of three months of notification of that act to the European Parliament and the Council or if, before the expiry of that period, the European Parliament and the Council have both informed the Commission that they will not object. That period shall be extended by three months at the initiative of the European Parliament or of the Council.

TITLE VIII

COMMON PROVISIONS
