---
surnom_texte_lvl1: EMIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: EMIR 2.2
texte: 2012R0648EMIR 2.2
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 4
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0648
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2012R0648EMIR 2.2_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2012R0648EMIR 2.2_FR.25 nonies]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02012R0648-20200101).
>
> [[2012R0648EMIR 2.2_EN.25g|Article 25g – General investigations]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2012R0648EMIR 2.2_EN.25i|Article 25i – Procedural rules for taking supervisory measures and imposing fines]]
>

# Article 25h - On-site inspections

## 1.
In order to carry out its duties under this Regulation, ESMA may conduct all necessary on-site inspections at any business premises, land or property of Tier 2 CCPs and related third parties to whom those CCPs have outsourced operational functions, services or activities.

The central banks of issue referred to in point (f) of Article 25(3) may submit a reasoned request to ESMA to participate in such on-site inspections where relevant for the carrying out of their monetary policy tasks.

The third-country CCP college referred to in Article 25c shall be informed without undue delay of any findings that may be relevant for the execution of its tasks.
## 2.
The officials and other persons authorised by ESMA to conduct an on-site inspection may enter any business premises, land or property of the legal persons subject to an inspection decision adopted by ESMA and shall have all the powers stipulated in Article 25g(1). They shall also have the power to seal any business premises and books or records for the period of, and to the extent necessary for, the inspection.
## 3.
In sufficient time before the inspection, ESMA shall give notice of the inspection to the relevant third-country competent authority where the inspection is to be conducted. Where the proper conduct and efficiency of the inspection so require, ESMA, after informing the relevant third-country competent authority, may carry out the on-site inspection without prior notice to the CCP. Inspections conducted in a third country in accordance with this Article shall be conducted pursuant to the cooperation arrangements established with the relevant third-country competent authority.

The officials and other persons authorised by ESMA to conduct an on-site inspection shall exercise their powers upon production of a written authorisation specifying the subject matter and purpose of the inspection and the periodic penalty payments provided for in Article 25k where the persons concerned do not submit to the inspection.
## 4.
Tier 2 CCPs shall submit to on-site inspections ordered by decision of ESMA. The decision shall specify the subject matter and purpose of the inspection, appoint the date on which it is to begin and indicate the periodic penalty payments provided for in Article 25k, the legal remedies available under Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010 as well as the right to have the decision reviewed by the Court of Justice.
## 5.
Officials of, as well as those authorised or appointed by, the competent authority of the third country where the inspection is to be conducted may, at the request of ESMA, actively assist the officials and other persons authorised by ESMA. Officials of the relevant third-country competent authority may also attend the on-site inspections.
## 6.
ESMA may also request third-country competent authorities to carry out specific investigatory tasks and on-site inspections as provided for in this Article and in Article 25g(1) on its behalf.
## 7.
Where the officials and other accompanying persons authorised by ESMA find that a person opposes an inspection ordered pursuant to this Article, ESMA may request the third-country competent authority concerned to afford them the necessary assistance, including, where appropriate, the assistance of the police or of an equivalent enforcement authority, to enable them to conduct their on-site inspection.
