---
surnom_texte_lvl1: EMIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: EMIR 2.2
texte: 2012R0648EMIR 2.2
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 4
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0648
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2012R0648EMIR 2.2_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2012R0648EMIR 2.2_FR.19]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02012R0648-20200101).
>
> [[2012R0648EMIR 2.2_EN.18|Article 18 – College]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2012R0648EMIR 2.2_EN.20|Article 20 – Withdrawal of authorisation]]
>

# Article 19 - Opinion of the college

## 1.
Within four months of the submission of a complete application by the CCP in accordance with Article 17, the CCP’s competent authority shall conduct a risk assessment of the CCP and submit a report to the college.

Within 30 calendar days of receipt, and on the basis of the findings in, that report, the college shall reach a joint opinion determining whether the applicant CCP complies with all the requirements laid down in this Regulation.

Without prejudice to the fourth subparagraph of Article 17(4) and if no joint opinion is reached in accordance with the second subparagraph, the college shall adopt a majority opinion within the same period.

1a.  Where the college gives an opinion pursuant to this Regulation, at the request of any member of the college and upon adoption by a majority of the college in accordance with paragraph 3 of this Article, that opinion may include, in addition to the determination of whether the CCP complies with this Regulation, recommendations aimed at addressing shortcomings in the CCP's risk management and increasing its resilience.

Where the college may give an opinion, any central bank of issue, which is a member of the college pursuant to points (h) and (i) of Article 18(2), may adopt recommendations relating to the currency it issues.
## 2.
ESMA shall facilitate the adoption of the joint opinion in accordance with its general coordination function under Article 31 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010.
## 3.
A majority opinion of the college shall be adopted on the basis of a simple majority of its members.

For colleges up to and including 12 members, a maximum of two college members belonging to the same Member State shall have a vote and each voting member, shall have one vote. For colleges with more than 12 members, a maximum of three members belonging to the same Member State shall have a vote and each voting member shall have one vote.

Where the ECB is a member of the college pursuant to points (c) and (h) of Article 18(2), it shall have two votes.

The members of the college referred to in points (a), (ca) and (i) of Article 18(2) shall have no voting rights on the opinions of the college.
## 4.
Without prejudice to the procedure prescribed in Article 17, the competent authority shall duly consider the opinion of the college reached in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article, including any possible recommendations aimed at addressing shortcomings in the CCP's risk management and increasing its resilience. Where the CCP's competent authority does not agree with an opinion of the college, including any recommendations contained therein aimed at addressing shortcomings in the CCP's risk management procedures and increasing its resilience, its decision shall contain full reasons and an explanation of any significant deviation from that opinion or recommendations.
