---
surnom_texte_lvl1: EMIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: EMIR 2.2
texte: 2012R0648EMIR 2.2
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 4
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0648
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2012R0648EMIR 2.2_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2012R0648EMIR 2.2_FR.25 ter]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02012R0648-20200101).
>
> [[2012R0648EMIR 2.2_EN.25a|Article 25a – Comparable compliance]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2012R0648EMIR 2.2_EN.25c|Article 25c – Third-country CCP college]]
>

# Article 25b - Ongoing compliance with the conditions for recognition

## 1.
ESMA shall be responsible for carrying out the duties resulting from this Regulation for the supervision on an ongoing basis of the compliance of recognised Tier 2 CCPs with the requirements referred to in point (a) of Article 25(2b). With regard to decisions pursuant to Articles 41, 44, 46, 50 and 54, ESMA shall consult the central banks of issue referred to in point (f) of Article 25(3) in accordance with Article 24b(1).

ESMA shall require confirmation from each Tier 2 CCP at least on a yearly basis that the requirements referred to in points (a), (c) and (d) of Article 25(2b) continue to be fulfilled.

Where a central bank of issue referred to in point (f) of Article 25(3) considers that a Tier 2 CCP no longer fulfils the condition referred to in point (b) of Article 25(2b), it shall immediately notify ESMA.
## 2.
Where a Tier 2 CCP fails to provide ESMA with the confirmation referred to in the second subparagraph of paragraph 1 or where ESMA receives a notification pursuant to the third subparagraph of paragraph 1, the CCP shall be considered as no longer meeting the conditions for recognition pursuant to Article 25(2b) and the procedure set out in Article 25p(2), (3) and (4) shall apply.
## 3.
ESMA shall, in cooperation with the ESRB, carry out assessments of the resilience of recognised Tier 2 CCPs to adverse market developments in accordance with Article 32(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010, in coordination with the assessments referred to in point (b) of Article 24a(7). Central banks of issue referred to in point (f) of Article 25(3) may contribute to such assessments in the carrying out of their monetary policy tasks. In carrying out those assessments, ESMA shall include at least financial and operational risks, and ensure consistency with the assessments of the resilience of Union CCPs carried out pursuant to point (b) of Article 24a(7) of this Regulation.
