---
surnom_texte_lvl1: EMIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: EMIR 2.2
texte: 2012R0648EMIR 2.2
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 4
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0648
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2012R0648EMIR 2.2_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2012R0648EMIR 2.2_FR.24 ter]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02012R0648-20200101).
>
> [[2012R0648EMIR 2.2_EN.24a|Article 24a – CCP Supervisory Committee]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2012R0648EMIR 2.2_EN.24c|Article 24c – Decision making within the CCP Supervisory Committee]]
>

# Article 24b - Consultation of central banks of issue

## 1.
With regard to decisions to be taken pursuant to Articles 41, 44, 46, 50 and 54 in relation to Tier 2 CCPs, the CCP Supervisory Committee shall consult the central banks of issue referred to in point (f) of Article 25(3). Each central bank of issue may respond. Any response shall be received within 10 working days of the transmission of the draft decision. In emergency situations, the aforementioned period shall not exceed 24 hours. Where a central bank of issue proposes amendments or objects to draft decisions pursuant to Articles 41, 44, 46, 50 and 54, it shall provide full and detailed reasons, in writing. Upon conclusion of the period for consultation, the CCP Supervisory Committee shall duly consider the amendments proposed by the central banks of issue.
## 2.
Where the CCP Supervisory Committee does not reflect in its draft decision the amendments proposed by a central bank of issue, the CCP Supervisory Committee shall inform that central bank of issue in writing stating its full reasons for not taking into account the amendments proposed by that central bank of issue, providing an explanation for any deviations from those amendments. The CCP Supervisory Committee shall submit to the Board of Supervisors the amendments proposed by central banks of issue and its explanations for not taking them into account together with its draft decision.
## 3.
With regard to decisions to be taken pursuant to Articles 25(2c) and 85(6), the CCP Supervisory Committee shall seek the agreement of the central banks of issue referred to in point (f) of Article 25(3) for matters relating to the currencies they issue. The agreement of each central bank of issue shall be deemed to be given, unless the central bank of issue proposes amendments or objects within 10 working days of the transmission of the draft decision. Where a central bank of issue proposes amendments or objects to a draft decision, it shall provide full and detailed reasons, in writing. Where a central bank of issue proposes amendments with respect to matters relating to the currency it issues, the CCP Supervisory Committee may only submit to the Board of Supervisors the draft decision as amended with respect to those matters. Where a central bank of issue objects with respect to matters relating to the currency it issues, the CCP Supervisory Committee shall not include those matters in the draft decision it submits to the Board of Supervisors for adoption.
