---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MAR
surnom_texte_lvl2: Format insider list
texte: 2022R1210
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014R0596
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2022R1210_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2022R1210_FR.2]]. Back to [[2014R0596_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32022R1210).
>
> [[2022R1210_EN.1|Article 1 – Insider lists required by Article 18(1) of Regulation (EU) No 596/2014]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2022R1210_EN.3|Article 3 – Repeal]]
>

> [!tip]- References LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2014R0596_EN.18#6]]# Article 2 - Insider lists referred to in Article 18(6) of Regulation (EU) No 596/2014

## 1.
The insider list referred to in the first subparagraph of [[2014R0596_EN.18#6|Article 18(6) of Regulation (EU) No 596/2014]] may include only the personal details of persons having regular access to inside information. That list shall be drawn up using the format set out in Annex II.
## 2.
Insider lists required by the Member States pursuant to the second subparagraph of [[2014R0596_EN.18#6|Article 18(6) of Regulation (EU) No 596/2014]] shall contain a section specific to each piece of inside information, and shall be drawn up using the format set out in Template 1 in Annex III to this Regulation.
The details of persons who, due to the nature of their function or position, have access to all inside information at all times may be listed separately in a permanent insiders section of the insiders list. That permanent insiders section shall be drawn up using the format set out in Template 2 in Annex III to this Regulation. Where the permanent insiders list section is drawn, the personal data of the permanent insiders shall not be included in each section of the insider list corresponding to each inside information referred to in the first subparagraph of this paragraph.
## 3.
The insider lists referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be kept in any form that ensures that the completeness, integrity and confidentiality of the information included in those lists are maintained at all times during the transmission to the competent authority.