---
surnom_texte_lvl1: SECR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2017R2402
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2017R2402
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2017R2402_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2017R2402_FR.36]]. Open the [[CELEX_02017R2402-20210409_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02017R2402-20210409).
>
> [[2017R2402_EN.35|Article 35 – Notification duties]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2017R2402_EN.37|Article 37 – Publication of administrative sanctions]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 2 reference(s): [[2021R1415_EN.0]]

# Article 36 - Cooperation between competent authorities and the ESAs

## 1.
The competent authorities referred to in [[2017R2402_EN.29|Article 29]] and ESMA, the EBA and EIOPA shall cooperate closely with each other and exchange information to carry out their duties pursuant to [[2017R2402_EN.30|Article 30]] to 34.
## 2.
Competent authorities shall closely coordinate their supervision in order to identify and remedy infringements of this Regulation, develop and promote best practices, facilitate collaboration, foster consistency of interpretation and provide cross-jurisdictional assessments in the event of any disagreements.
## 3.
A specific *[[2017R2402_EN.2#(1)|securitisation]]* committee shall be established within the framework of the Joint Committee of the European Supervisory Authorities, within which competent authorities shall closely cooperate, in order to carry out their duties pursuant to Articles [[2017R2402_EN.30|30]] to 34.
## 4.
Where a competent authority finds that one or more of the requirements under Articles [[2017R2402_EN.6|6]] to 27 have been infringed or has reason to believe so, it shall inform the competent authority of the entity or entities suspected of such infringement of its findings in a sufficiently detailed manner. The competent authorities concerned shall closely coordinate their supervision in order to ensure consistent decisions.
## 5.
Where the infringement referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article concerns, in particular, an incorrect or misleading notification pursuant to [[2017R2402_EN.27#1|Article 27(1)]], the competent authority finding that infringement shall notify without delay, the competent authority of the entity designated as the first contact point under Article 27(1) of its findings. The competent authority of the entity designated as the first contact point under [[2017R2402_EN.27#1|Article 27(1)]] shall in turn inform ESMA, the EBA and EIOPA and shall follow the procedure provided for in paragraph 6 of this Article.
## 6.
Upon receipt of the information referred to in paragraph 4, the competent authority of the entity suspected of the infringement shall take within 15 working days any necessary action to address the infringement identified and notify the other competent authorities involved, in particular those of the *[[2017R2402_EN.2#(3)|originator]]*, *[[2017R2402_EN.2#(5)|sponsor]]* and *[[2017R2402_EN.2#(2)|SSPE]]* and the competent authorities of the holder of a *[[2017R2402_EN.2#(19)|securitisation position]]*, when known. When a competent authority disagrees with another competent authority regarding the procedure or content of its action or inaction, it shall notify all other competent authorities involved about its disagreement without undue delay. If that disagreement is not resolved within three months of the date on which all competent authorities involved are notified, the matter shall be referred to ESMA in accordance with [[2017R2402_EN.19|Article 19]] and, where applicable, [[2010R1095_EN.20|Article 20 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010]]. The conciliation period referred to in [[2010R1095_EN.19#2|Article 19(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010]] shall be one month.

Where the competent authorities concerned fail to reach an agreement within the conciliation phase referred to in the first subparagraph, ESMA shall take the decision referred to in [[2010R1095_EN.19#3|Article 19(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010]] within one month. During the procedure set out in this Article, a *[[2017R2402_EN.2#(1)|securitisation]]* appearing on the list maintained by ESMA pursuant to [[2017R2402_EN.27|Article 27]] of this Regulation shall continue to be considered as *[[2017R2402_EN.2#1.|STS]]* pursuant to Chapter 4 of this Regulation and shall be kept on such list.

Where the competent authorities concerned agree that the infringement is related to non-compliance with [[2017R2402_EN.18|Article 18]] in good faith, they may decide to grant the *[[2017R2402_EN.2#(3)|originator]]*, *[[2017R2402_EN.2#(5)|sponsor]]* and *[[2017R2402_EN.2#(2)|SSPE]]* a period of up to three months to remedy the identified infringement, starting from the day the *[[2017R2402_EN.2#(3)|originator]]*, *[[2017R2402_EN.2#(5)|sponsor]]* and *[[2017R2402_EN.2#(2)|SSPE]]* were informed of the infringement by the competent authority. During this period, a *[[2017R2402_EN.2#(1)|securitisation]]* appearing on the list maintained by ESMA pursuant to [[2017R2402_EN.27|Article 27]] shall continue to be considered as *[[2017R2402_EN.2#1.|STS]]* pursuant to Chapter 4 and shall be kept on such list.

Where one or more of the competent authorities involved is of the opinion that the infringement is not appropriately remedied within the period set out in third subparagraph, first subparagraph shall apply.
## 7.
Three years from the date of application of this Regulation, ESMA shall conduct a peer review in accordance with [[2010R1095_EN.30|Article 30 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010]] on the implementation of the criteria provided for in Articles [[2017R2402_EN.19|19]] to 26 of this Regulation.
## 8.
ESMA shall, in close cooperation with the EBA and EIOPA, develop draft regulatory technical standards to specify the general cooperation obligation and the information to be exchanged under paragraph 1 and the notification obligations pursuant to paragraphs 4 and 5.

ESMA shall, in close cooperation with the EBA and EIOPA, submit those draft regulatory technical standards to the Commission by 18 January 2019.

The Commission is empowered to supplement this Regulation by adopting the regulatory technical standards referred to in this paragraph in accordance with Articles [[2010R1095_EN.10|10]] to [[2010R1095_EN.14|14]] of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010.