---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MICA
surnom_texte_lvl2: MICA885
texte: 2025R0885
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2023R1114
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2025R0885_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2025R0885_FR.8]]. Back to [[2023R1114_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2025/0885/oj).
>
> [[2025R0885_EN.7|Article 7 – Exchange of reports between competent authorities]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2025R0885_EN.9|Article 9 – Entry into force]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2023R1114_EN.92#2]]# Article 8 - Coordination procedures for the detection and sanctioning of cross-border market abuse situations

## 1.
A competent authority that suspects that cross-border market abuse has taken place, may have taken place, or may be taking place, shall report the status of its preliminary assessment to the other competent authorities concerned without undue delay, including, where applicable, to the competent authorities of the trading platforms where the crypto-asset is admitted to trading.
When informed about cross-border market abuse situations, the receiving competent authorities shall, without undue delay, share information about the planning or existence of any supervisory activity or measure or, where applicable and where such information is available to the receiving competent authority, about an existing criminal investigation on the same case.
## 2.
Competent authorities concerned shall:
### (a)
periodically update each other about cross-border market abuse situations;
### (b)
inform each other about significant interim developments related to cross-border market abuse situations;
### (c)
coordinate their supervisory and enforcement actions.
## 3.
A competent authority that has formally initiated an investigation, enforcement activity or, where applicable, that is aware of a criminal investigation, shall inform the other competent authorities concerned thereof, including, where applicable, the competent authorities of the trading platforms where the crypto-asset is admitted to trading. The reporting competent authority may inform ESMA.
## 4.
Competent authorities having initiated or involved in an investigation or enforcement activity in the context of cross-border situations may request the coordination of ESMA.
## 5.
For the purposes of this Article, ‘cross-border market abuse situations’ shall mean any of the following situations:
### (a)
a situation in which more than one competent authority is competent to detect, investigate or sanction a potential market abuse case;
### (b)
a situation in which cooperation between two or more competent authorities is necessary to detect, investigate or sanction a potential market abuse case.