---
surnom_texte_lvl1: AIFMD
surnom_texte_lvl2: Exemption
texte: 2013R0231
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2011L0061
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2013R0231_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2013R0231_FR.11]]. Back to [[2011L0061_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02013R0231-20240212).
>
> [[2013R0231_EN.10|Article 10 – Conversion methodologies for derivative instruments]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2013R0231_EN.12|Article 12 – Professional liability risks]]
>

> [!tip]- References LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2011L0061_EN.4#3]]

# Article 11 - Duration netting rules

## 1.
Duration netting rules shall be applied by AIFMs when calculating the exposure of AIFs according to [[2013R0231_EN.8#9|Article 8(9)]].
## 2.
The duration-netting rules shall not be used where they would lead to a misrepresentation of the risk profile of the AIF. AIFMs availing themselves of those netting rules shall not include other sources of risk such as volatility in their interest rate strategy. Consequently, interest rate arbitrage strategies shall not apply those netting rules.
## 3.
The use of those duration-netting rules shall not generate any unjustified level of leverage through investment in short-term positions. Short-dated interest rate derivatives shall not be the main source of performance for an AIF with medium duration which uses the duration netting rules.
## 4.
Interest rate derivatives shall be converted into their equivalent underlying asset position and netted in accordance with Annex III.
## 5.
An AIF making use of the duration-netting rules may still make use of the hedging framework. Duration netting rules may be applied only to the interest rate derivatives which are not included in hedging arrangements.