---
surnom_texte_lvl1: AIFMD
surnom_texte_lvl2: Exemption
texte: 2013R0231
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2011L0061
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2013R0231_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2013R0231_FR.92]]. Back to [[2011L0061_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02013R0231-20240212).
>
> [[2013R0231_EN.91|Article 91 – Reporting obligations for prime brokers]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2013R0231_EN.93|Article 93 – Duties regarding subscription and redemptions]]
>

> [!tip]- References LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2011L0061_EN.21#2]]

# Article 92 - Oversight duties — general requirements

## 1.
At the time of its appointment, the depositary shall assess the risks associated with the nature, scale and complexity of the AIF’s strategy and the AIFM’s organisation in order to devise oversight procedures which are appropriate to the AIF and the assets in which it invests and which are then implemented and applied. Such procedures shall be regularly updated.
## 2.
In performing its oversight duties under [[2011L0061_EN.21#9|Article 21(9) of Directive 2011/61/EU]], a depositary shall perform

ex-post

controls and verifications of processes and procedures that are under the responsibility of the AIFM, the AIF or an appointed third party. The depositary shall in all circumstances ensure that an appropriate verification and reconciliation procedure exists which is implemented and applied and frequently reviewed. The AIFM shall ensure that all instructions related to the AIF’s assets and operations are sent to the depositary, so that the depositary is able to perform its own verification or reconciliation procedure.
## 3.
A depositary shall establish a clear and comprehensive escalation procedure to deal with situations where potential irregularities are detected in the course of its oversight duties, the details of which shall be made available to the competent authorities of the AIFM upon request.
## 4.
An AIFM shall provide the depositary, upon commencement of its duties and on an ongoing basis, with all relevant information it needs in order to comply with its obligations pursuant to [[2011L0061_EN.21#9|Article 21(9) of Directive 2011/61/EU]] including information to be provided to the depositary by third parties. The AIFM shall particularly ensure that the depositary is able to have access to the books and perform on-site visits on premises of the AIFM and of those of any service provider appointed by the AIF or the AIFM, such as administrators or external valuers and, as the case may be, or to review reports and statements of recognised external certifications by qualified independent auditors or other experts in order to ensure the adequacy and relevance of the procedures in place.