---
surnom_texte_lvl1: AIFMD
surnom_texte_lvl2: Exemption
texte: 2013R0231
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2011L0061
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2013R0231_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2013R0231_FR.67]]. Back to [[2011L0061_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02013R0231-20240212).
>
> [[2013R0231_EN.66|Article 66 – Recordkeeping requirements]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2013R0231_EN.68|Article 68 – Use of models to value assets]]
>

> [!tip]- References LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2011L0061_EN.19]]

# Article 67 - Policies and procedures for the valuation of the assets of the AIF

## 1.
AIFMs shall establish, maintain, implement and review, for each AIF they manage, written policies and procedures that ensure a sound, transparent, comprehensive and appropriately documented valuation process. The valuation policy and procedures shall cover all material aspects of the valuation process and valuation procedures and controls in respect of the relevant AIF.

Without prejudice to requirements under national law and the AIF rules and instruments of incorporation, the AIFM shall ensure that fair, appropriate and transparent valuation methodologies are applied for the AIFs it manages. The valuation policies shall identify and the procedures shall implement the valuation methodologies used for each type of asset in which the AIF may invest in accordance with applicable national law, the AIF rules and the instruments of incorporation. The AIFM shall not invest in a particular type of asset for the first time unless an appropriate valuation methodology or methodologies have been identified for that specific type of asset.

The policies and procedures setting out valuation methodologies shall include inputs, models and the selection criteria for pricing and market data sources. They shall provide that prices shall be obtained from independent sources whenever possible and appropriate. The selection process of a particular methodology shall include an assessment of the available relevant methodologies, taking into account their sensitivity to changes in variables and how specific strategies determine the relative value of the assets in the portfolio.
## 2.
The valuation policies shall set out the obligations, roles and responsibilities of all parties involved in the valuation process, including the *[[2013R0231_EN.1#(3)|senior management]]* of the AIFM. The procedures shall reflect the organisational structure as set out in the valuation policies.

The valuation policies and procedures shall address at least the following:
### (a)
the competence and independence of personnel who are effectively carrying out the valuation of assets;
### (b)
the specific investment strategies of the AIF and the assets the AIF might invest in;
### (c)
the controls over the selection of valuation inputs, sources and methodologies;
### (d)
the escalation channels for resolving differences in values for assets;
### (e)
the valuation of any adjustments related to the size and liquidity of positions, or to changes in the market conditions, as appropriate;
### (f)
the appropriate time for closing the books for valuation purposes;
### (g)
the appropriate frequency for valuing assets.
## 3.
Where an external valuer is appointed, the valuation policies and procedures shall set out a process for the exchange of information between the AIFM and the external valuer to ensure that all necessary information required for the purpose of performing the valuation task is provided.

The valuation policies and procedures shall ensure that the AIFM conducts initial and periodic due diligence on third parties that are appointed to perform valuation services.
## 4.
Where the valuation is performed by the AIFM itself, the policies shall include a description of the safeguards for the functionally independent performance of the valuation task in accordance with point (b) of [[2011L0061_EN.19#4|Article 19(4) of Directive 2011/61/EU]]. Such safeguards shall include measures to prevent or restrain any person from exercising inappropriate influence over the way in which a person carries out valuation activities.