---
surnom_texte_lvl1: AIFMD
surnom_texte_lvl2: Exemption
texte: 2013R0231
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2011L0061
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2013R0231_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2013R0231_FR.6]]. Back to [[2011L0061_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02013R0231-20240212).
>
> [[2013R0231_EN.5|Article 5 – Information to be provided as part of registration]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2013R0231_EN.7|Article 7 – Gross method for calculating the exposure of the AIF]]
>

> [!tip]- References LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2011L0061_EN.4#3]]# Article 6 - General provisions on the calculation of leverage

## 1.
Leverage of an AIF shall be expressed as the ratio between the exposure of an AIF and its net asset value.
## 2.
AIFMs shall calculate the exposure of the AIFs managed in accordance with the gross method as set out in [[2013R0231_EN.7|Article 7]] and the commitment method as set out in [[2013R0231_EN.8|Article 8]].

The Commission shall review, in the light of market developments and no later than 21 July 2015, the calculation methods referred to in the first subparagraph in order to decide whether these methods are sufficient and appropriate for all types of AIFs, or an additional and optional method for calculating leverage should be developed.
## 3.
Exposure contained in any financial or legal structures involving third parties controlled by the relevant AIF shall be included in the calculation of the exposure where the structures referred to are specifically set up to directly or indirectly increase the exposure at the level of the AIF. For AIFs whose core investment policy is to acquire control of non-listed companies or issuers, the AIFM shall not include in the calculation of the leverage any exposure that exists at the level of those non-listed companies and issuers provided that the AIF or the AIFM acting on behalf of the AIF does not have to bear potential losses beyond its investment in the respective company or issuer.
## 4.
AIFMs shall exclude borrowing arrangements entered into if these are temporary in nature and are fully covered by contractual *[[2013R0231_EN.1#(1)|capital commitments]]* from investors in the AIF.
## 5.
An AIFM shall have appropriately documented procedures to calculate the exposure of each AIF under its management in accordance with the gross method and the commitment method. The calculation shall be applied consistently over time.