---
surnom_texte_lvl1: AIFMD
surnom_texte_lvl2: Exemption
texte: 2013R0231
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2011L0061
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2013R0231_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2013R0231_FR.100]]. Back to [[2011L0061_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Open the [[CELEX_02013R0231-20240212_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02013R0231-20240212).
>
> [[2013R0231_EN.99|Article 99 – Segregation obligation]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2013R0231_EN.101|Article 101 – Liability discharge under Article 21(12) of Directive 2011/61/EU]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2011L0061_EN.21#12]]

# Article 100 - Loss of a financial instrument held in custody

## 1.
A loss of a financial instrument held in custody within the meaning of [[2011L0061_EN.21#12|Article 21(12) of Directive 2011/61/EU]] shall be deemed to have taken place when, in relation to a financial instrument held in custody by the depositary or by a third party to whom the custody of financial instruments held in custody has been delegated, any of the following conditions is met:
### (a)
a stated right of ownership of the AIF is demonstrated not to be valid because it either ceased to exist or never existed;
### (b)
the AIF has been definitively deprived of its right of ownership over the financial instrument;
### (c)
the AIF is definitively unable to directly or indirectly dispose of the financial instrument.
## 2.
The ascertainment by the AIFM of the loss of a financial instrument shall follow a documented process readily available to the competent authorities. Once a loss is ascertained, it shall be notified immediately to investors in a durable medium.
## 3.
A financial instrument held in custody shall not be deemed to be lost within the meaning of [[2011L0061_EN.21#12|Article 21(12) of Directive 2011/61/EU]] where an AIF is definitively deprived of its right of ownership in respect of a particular instrument, but this instrument is substituted by or converted into another financial instrument or instruments.
## 4.
In the event of insolvency of the third party to whom the custody of financial instruments held in custody has been delegated, the loss of a financial instrument held in custody shall be ascertained by the AIFM as soon as one of the conditions listed in paragraph 1 is met with certainty.

There shall be certainty as to whether any of the conditions set out in paragraph 1 is fulfilled at the latest at the end of the insolvency proceedings. The AIFM and the depositary shall monitor closely the insolvency proceedings to determine whether all or some of the financial instruments entrusted to the third party to whom the custody of financial instruments has been delegated are effectively lost.
## 5.
A loss of a financial instrument held in custody shall be ascertained irrespective of whether the conditions listed in paragraph 1 are the result of fraud, negligence or other intentional or non-intentional behaviour.