---
surnom_texte_lvl1: AIFMD
surnom_texte_lvl2: Exemption
texte: 2013R0231
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2011L0061
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2013R0231_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2013R0231_FR.13]]. Back to [[2011L0061_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02013R0231-20240212).
>
> [[2013R0231_EN.12|Article 12 – Professional liability risks]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2013R0231_EN.14|Article 14 – Additional own funds]]
>

> [!tip]- References LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2011L0061_EN.9#7]], [[2011L0061_EN.15]]

# Article 13 - Qualitative requirements addressing professional liability risks

## 1.
An AIFM shall implement effective internal operational risk management policies and procedures in order to identify, measure, manage and monitor appropriately operational risks including professional liability risks to which the AIFM is or could be reasonably exposed. The operational risk management activities shall be performed independently as part of the risk management policy.
## 2.
An AIFM shall set up a historical loss database, in which any operational failures, loss and damage experience shall be recorded. This database shall record, without being limited to, any professional liability risks as referred to in [[2013R0231_EN.12#2|Article 12(2)]] that have materialised.
## 3.
Within the risk management framework the AIFM shall make use of its internal historical loss data and where appropriate of external data, scenario analysis and factors reflecting the business environment and internal control systems.
## 4.
Operational risk exposures and loss experience shall be monitored on an ongoing basis and shall be subject to regular internal reporting.
## 5.
An AIFM’s operational risk management policies and procedures shall be well documented. An AIFM shall have arrangements in place for ensuring compliance with its operational risk management policies and effective measures for the treatment of non-compliance with these policies. An AIFM shall have procedures in place for taking appropriate corrective action.
## 6.
The operational risk management policies and procedures and measurement systems shall be subject to regular review, at least on an annual basis.
## 7.
An AIFM shall maintain financial resources adequate to its assessed risk profile.