---
surnom_texte_lvl1: AIFMD
surnom_texte_lvl2: Exemption
texte: 2013R0231
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2011L0061
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2013R0231_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2013R0231_FR.2]]. Back to [[2011L0061_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Open the [[CELEX_02013R0231-20240212_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02013R0231-20240212).
>
> [[2013R0231_EN.1|Article 1 – Definitions]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2013R0231_EN.3|Article 3 – Ongoing monitoring of assets under management]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2011L0061_EN.3#2]]

# Article 2 - Calculation of the total value of assets under management

## 1.
In order to qualify for the exemption provided for in [[2011L0061_EN.3#2|Article 3(2) of Directive 2011/61/EU]] an AIFM shall:
### (a)
identify all AIFs for which it is appointed as the external AIFM or the AIF for which it is the AIFM, where the legal form of the AIF permits internal management, in accordance with [[2011L0061_EN.5|Article 5 of Directive 2011/61/EU]];
### (b)
identify for each managed AIF the portfolio of assets and determine in accordance with the valuation rules laid down in the law of the country where the AIF is established and, as the case may be, or in the AIF rules or instruments of incorporation the corresponding value of assets under management, including all assets acquired through use of leverage;
### (c)
aggregate the determined values of assets under management for all AIFs managed and compare the resulting total value of assets under management to the relevant threshold laid down in [[2011L0061_EN.3#2|Article 3(2) of Directive 2011/61/EU]].
## 2.
For the purposes of paragraph 1, undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (UCITS) for which the AIFM acts as the designated management company under Directive 2009/65/EC shall not be included in the calculation.

For the purposes of paragraph 1, AIFs managed by the AIFM for which the AIFM has delegated functions in accordance with [[2011L0061_EN.20|Article 20 of Directive 2011/61/EU]] shall be included in the calculation. However, portfolios of AIFs that the AIFM is managing under delegation shall be excluded from the calculation.
## 3.
For the purpose of calculating the total value of assets under management, each derivative instrument position, including any derivative embedded in transferable securities shall be converted into its equivalent position in the underlying assets of that derivative using the conversion methodologies set out in [[2013R0231_EN.10|Article 10]]. The absolute value of that equivalent position shall then be used for the calculation of the total value of assets under management.
## 4.
Where an AIF invests in other AIFs managed by the same externally appointed AIFM, that investment may be excluded from the calculation of the AIFM’s assets under management.
## 5.
Where one compartment within an internally or externally managed AIF invests in another compartment of that AIF, that investment may be excluded from the calculation of the AIFMs assets under management.
## 6.
The total value of assets under management shall be calculated in accordance with paragraphs 1 to 4 at least annually and using the latest available asset values. The latest available asset value for each AIF shall be produced during the 12 months preceding the date of the calculation of the threshold in accordance with the first sentence of this paragraph. The AIFM shall determine a threshold calculation date and apply it in a consistent manner. Any subsequent change to the date chosen must be justified to the competent authority. In selecting the threshold calculation date, the AIFM shall take into account the time and frequency of the valuation of the assets under management.