---
surnom_texte_lvl1: AIFMD
surnom_texte_lvl2: Exemption
texte: 2013R0231
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2011L0061
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2013R0231_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2013R0231_FR.14]]. Back to [[2011L0061_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Open the [[CELEX_02013R0231-20240212_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02013R0231-20240212).
>
> [[2013R0231_EN.13|Article 13 – Qualitative requirements addressing professional liability risks]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2013R0231_EN.15|Article 15 – Professional indemnity insurance]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2011L0061_EN.15]], [[2011L0061_EN.9#7]]

# Article 14 - Additional own funds

## 1.
This Article shall apply to AIFMs that choose to cover professional liability risks through additional own funds.
## 2.
The AIFM shall provide additional own funds for covering liability risks arising from professional negligence at least equal to 0,01 % of the value of the portfolios of AIFs managed.

The value of the portfolios of AIFs managed shall be the sum of the absolute value of all assets of all AIFs managed by the AIFM, including assets acquired through use of leverage, whereby derivative instruments shall be valued at their market value.
## 3.
The additional own funds requirement referred to in paragraph 2 shall be recalculated at the end of each financial year and the amount of additional own funds shall be adjusted accordingly.

The AIFM shall establish, implement and apply procedures to monitor on an ongoing basis the value of the portfolios of AIFs managed, calculated in accordance with the second subparagraph of paragraph 2. Where, before the annual recalculation referred to in the first subparagraph, the value of the portfolios of AIFs managed increases significantly, the AIFM shall without undue delay recalculate the additional own funds requirement and shall adjust the additional own funds accordingly.
## 4.
The competent authority of the home Member State of the AIFM may authorise the AIFM to provide additional own funds lower than the amount referred to in paragraph 2 only if it is satisfied — on the basis of the historical loss data of the AIFM as recorded over an observation period of at least three years prior to the assessment — that the AIFM provides sufficient additional own funds to appropriately cover professional liability risks. The authorised lower amount of additional own funds shall be not less than 0,008 % of the value of the portfolios of AIFs managed by the AIFM.
## 5.
The competent authority of the home Member State of the AIFM may request the AIFM to provide additional own funds higher than the amount referred to in paragraph 2 if it is not satisfied that the AIFM has sufficient additional own funds to appropriately cover professional liability risks. The competent authority shall give reasons why it considers that the AIFM’s additional own funds are insufficient.