---
surnom_texte_lvl1: AIFMD
surnom_texte_lvl2: Exemption
texte: 2013R0231
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2011L0061
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2013R0231_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2013R0231_FR.77]]. Back to [[2011L0061_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02013R0231-20240212).
>
> [[2013R0231_EN.76|Article 76 – Objective reasons for delegation]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2013R0231_EN.78|Article 78 – Delegation of portfolio or risk management]]
>

> [!tip]- References LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2011L0061_EN.20]]

# Article 77 - Features of the delegate

## 1.
A delegate shall have sufficient resources and shall employ sufficient personnel with the skills, knowledge and expertise necessary for the proper discharge of the tasks delegated to it and have an appropriate organisational structure supporting the performance of the delegated tasks.
## 2.
Persons who effectively conduct the activities delegated by the AIFM shall have sufficient experience, appropriate theoretical knowledge and appropriate practical experience in the relevant functions. Their professional training and the nature of the functions they have performed in the past shall be appropriate for the conduct of the business.
## 3.
Persons who effectively conduct the business of the delegate shall not be deemed of sufficiently good repute if they have any negative records relevant both for the assessment of good repute and for the proper performance of the delegated tasks or if there is other relevant information which affects their good reputation. Such negative records shall include but shall not be limited to criminal offences, judicial proceedings or administrative sanctions relevant for the performance of the delegated tasks. Special attention shall be given to any offences related to financial activities, including but not limited to obligations relating to the prevention of money laundering, dishonesty, fraud or financial crime, bankruptcy or insolvency. Other relevant information shall include information such as that indicating that the person is not trustworthy or honest.

Where the delegate is regulated in respect of its professional services within the Union, factors referred to in the first subparagraph shall be deemed to be satisfied when the relevant supervisory authority has reviewed the criterion of ‘good repute’ within the authorisation procedure unless there is evidence to the contrary.