---
surnom_texte_lvl1: AIFMD
surnom_texte_lvl2: Exemption
texte: 2013R0231
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2011L0061
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2013R0231_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2013R0231_FR.5]]. Back to [[2011L0061_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02013R0231-20240212).
>
> [[2013R0231_EN.4|Article 4 – Occasional breach of the threshold]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2013R0231_EN.6|Article 6 – General provisions on the calculation of leverage]]
>

> [!tip]- References LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2011L0061_EN.3#2]]# Article 5 - Information to be provided as part of registration

## 1.
As part of the requirement in [[2011L0061_EN.3#3#b|Article 3(3)(b) of Directive 2011/61/EU]], AIFMs shall communicate to the competent authorities the total value of assets under management calculated in accordance with the procedure set out in [[2013R0231_EN.2|Article 2]].
## 2.
As part of the requirement in [[2011L0061_EN.3#3#c|Article 3(3)(c) of Directive 2011/61/EU]] AIFMs shall provide for each AIF the offering document or a relevant extract from the offering document or a general description of the investment strategy. The relevant extract from the offering document and the description of the investment strategy shall include at least the following information:
### (a)
the main categories of assets in which the AIF may invest;
### (b)
any industrial, geographic or other market sectors or specific classes of assets which are the focus of the investment strategy;
### (c)
a description of the AIF’s borrowing or leverage policy.
## 3.
Information to be provided by the AIFM under point (d) of [[2011L0061_EN.3#3|Article 3(3) of Directive 2011/61/EU]] is listed in [[2013R0231_EN.110#1|Article 110(1)]] of this Regulation. It shall be provided in accordance with the pro-forma reporting template as set out in the Annex IV.
## 4.
Information collected in accordance with [[2011L0061_EN.3#3#d|Article 3(3)(d) of Directive 2011/61/EU]] shall be shared between competent authorities in the Union, with the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) and the European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB) where necessary for the fulfilment of their duties.
## 5.
The information required for registration purposes shall be updated and provided on an annual basis. For reasons relating to the exercise of their powers under [[2011L0061_EN.46|Article 46 of Directive 2011/61/EU]], the competent authorities may require an AIFM to provide the information referred to in [[2011L0061_EN.3|Article 3 of Directive 2011/61/EU]] on a more frequent basis.