---
surnom_texte_lvl1: AIFMD
surnom_texte_lvl2: Exemption
texte: 2013R0231
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2011L0061
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2013R0231_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2013R0231_FR.28]]. Back to [[2011L0061_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Open the [[CELEX_02013R0231-20240212_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02013R0231-20240212).
>
> [[2013R0231_EN.27|Article 27 – Execution of decisions to deal on behalf of the managed AIF]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2013R0231_EN.29|Article 29 – Aggregation and allocation of trading orders]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2011L0061_EN.12#1]]

# Article 28 - Placing orders to deal on behalf of AIFs with other entities for execution

## 1.
Whenever the AIFM buys or sells financial instruments or other assets for which best execution is relevant, it shall act in the best interest of the AIFs it manages or the investors in the AIFs when placing orders to deal on behalf of the managed AIFs with other entities for execution, in the context of the management of their portfolio.
## 2.
AIFMs shall take all reasonable steps to obtain the best possible result for the AIF or the investors in the AIF taking into account price, costs, speed, likelihood of execution and settlement, size, nature or any other consideration relevant to the execution of the order. The relative importance of such factors shall be determined by reference to the criteria laid down in [[2013R0231_EN.27#2|Article 27(2)]].

AIFMs shall establish, implement and apply a policy to enable them to comply with the obligation referred to in the first subparagraph. The policy shall identify, in respect of each class of instruments, the entities with which the orders may be placed. The AIFM shall only enter into arrangements for execution where such arrangements are consistent with the obligations laid down in this Article. The AIFM shall make available to investors in the AIFs it manages appropriate information on the policy established in accordance with this paragraph and on any material changes to that policy.
## 3.
AIFMs shall monitor on a regular basis the effectiveness of the policy established in accordance with paragraph 2 and, in particular, the quality of the execution by the entities identified in that policy and, where appropriate, correct any deficiencies.

In addition, AIFMs shall review the policy on an annual basis. Such a review shall also be carried out whenever a material change occurs that affects the AIFM’s ability to continue to obtain the best possible result for the managed AIFs.
## 4.
AIFMs shall be able to demonstrate that they have placed orders on behalf of the AIF in accordance with the policy established pursuant to paragraph 2.
## 5.
Whenever there is no choice of different execution venues paragraphs 2 to 5 shall not apply. However, AIFMs shall be able to demonstrate that there is no choice of different execution venues.