---
surnom_texte_lvl1: EMIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: College CCP
texte: 2013R0876
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0648
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2013R0876_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2013R0876_FR.2]]. Back to [[2012R0648_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Open the [[CELEX_02013R0876-20210107_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02013R0876-20210107).
>
> [[2013R0876_EN.1|Article 1 – Determination of most relevant currencies]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2013R0876_EN.3|Article 3 – Participation in the colleges]]
>



# Article 2 - The operational organisation of colleges

## 1.
After assessing that an application is complete as referred to in [[2012R0648_EN.17#3|Article 17(3) of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012]], the CCP’s competent authority shall circulate a proposal for the written agreement under [[2012R0648_EN.18#5|Article 18(5) of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012]] to the members of the college determined in accordance with [[2012R0648_EN.18#2|Article 18(2) of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012]]. That written agreement shall include a process for annual review. It shall also include an amendment process whereby changes may be initiated at any time by the CCP’s competent authority or by other members of the college, subject to approval by the college in accordance with the procedure set out in this Article.
## 2.
Where the members of the college referred to in paragraph 1 do not express any comments within 10 calendar days, the CCP’s competent authority shall proceed with the adoption of the written agreement by the college and with the establishment of the college in accordance with [[2012R0648_EN.18#1|Article 18(1) of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012]].
## 3.
Where the members of the college express comments regarding the proposal for the written agreement circulated pursuant to paragraph 1, they shall submit those comments together with a thorough explanation to the CCP’s competent authority within 10 calendar days. If relevant, the CCP’s competent authority shall prepare a revised proposal and convene a meeting to agree on the final written agreement taking into account the deadline referred to in [[2012R0648_EN.18#1|Article 18(1) of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012]].
## 4.
The college shall be deemed to be established following the adoption of the written agreement.
## 4a.
Competent authorities as referred to in [[2013R0876_EN.18#2|Article 18(2)]], point (ca), of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012, and central banks of issue as referred to in [[2013R0876_EN.18#2|Article 18(2)]], point (i), of that Regulation, that wish to participate in the college shall submit a reasoned request to the CCP’s competent authority. The CCP’s competent authority shall, within 20 calendar days of the receipt of the request, either provide the requesting competent authority or central bank with a copy of the written agreement for review and approval, or substantiating in writing why the request has been rejected.
## 5.
All members of the college will be bound by the written agreement adopted in accordance with paragraphs 1 to 3 of this Article.