---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MIF2
surnom_texte_lvl2: Delegated
texte: 2017R0565
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014L0065
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2017R0565_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2017R0565_FR.26]]. Back to [[2014L0065_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02017R0565-20220802).
>
> [[2017R0565_EN.25|Article 25 – Responsibility of senior management]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2017R0565_EN.27|Article 27 – Remuneration policies and practices]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2014L0065_EN.16#2]]# Article 26 - Complaints handling

## 1.
Investment firms shall establish, implement and maintain effective and transparent complaints management policies and procedures for the prompt handling of clients' *[[2017R0565_EN.2#1.|or potential clients]]*' complaints. Investment firms shall keep a record of the complaints received and the measures taken for their resolution.

The complaints management policy shall provide clear, accurate and up-to-date information about the complaints-handling process. This policy shall be endorsed by the firm's management body.
## 2.
Investment firms shall publish the details of the process to be followed when handling a complaint. Such details shall include information about the complaints management policy and the contact details of the complaints management function. The information shall be provided to clients *[[2017R0565_EN.2#1.|or potential clients]]*, on request, or when acknowledging a complaint. Investment firms shall enable clients and potential clients to submit complaints free of charge.
## 3.
Investment firms shall establish a complaints management function responsible for the investigation of complaints. This function may be carried out by the compliance function.
## 4.
When handling a complaint, investment firms shall communicate with clients *[[2017R0565_EN.2#1.|or potential clients]]* clearly, in plain language that is easy to understand and shall reply to the complaint without undue delay.
## 5.
Investment firms shall communicate the firm's position on the complaint to clients *[[2017R0565_EN.2#1.|or potential clients]]* and inform the clients *[[2017R0565_EN.2#1.|or potential clients]]* about their options, including that they may be able to refer the complaint to an alternative dispute resolution entity, as defined in [[2013L0011_EN.4#h|Article 4(h) of Directive 2013/11/EU]] of the European Parliament and the Council on consumer ADR or that the client may be able to take civil action.
## 6.
Investment firms shall provide information on complaints and complaints-handling to the relevant competent authorities and, where applicable under national law, to an alternative dispute resolution (ADR) entity.
## 7.
Investment firms' compliance function shall analyse complaints and complaints-handling data to ensure that they identify and address any risks or issues.