---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MIF2
surnom_texte_lvl2: Delegated
texte: 2017R0565
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014L0065
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2017R0565_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2017R0565_FR.27]]. Back to [[2014L0065_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02017R0565-20220802).
>
> [[2017R0565_EN.26|Article 26 – Complaints handling]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2017R0565_EN.28|Article 28 – Scope of personal transactions]]
>

> [!tip]- References LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2014L0065_EN.16]], [[2014L0065_EN.23]], [[2014L0065_EN.24]]

# Article 27 - Remuneration policies and practices

## 1.
Investment firms shall define and implement *[[2017R0565_EN.2#(5)|remuneration]]* policies and practices under appropriate internal procedures taking into account the interests of all the clients of the firm, with a view to ensuring that clients are treated fairly and their interests are not impaired by the *[[2017R0565_EN.2#(5)|remuneration]]* practices adopted by the firm in the short, medium or long term.

*[[2017R0565_EN.2#(5)|Remuneration]]* policies and practices shall be designed in such a way so as not to create a conflict of interest or incentive that may lead *[[2017R0565_EN.2#(1)|relevant persons]]* to favour their own interests or the firm's interests to the potential detriment of any client.
## 2.
Investment firms shall ensure that their *[[2017R0565_EN.2#(5)|remuneration]]* policies and practices apply to all *[[2017R0565_EN.2#(1)|relevant persons]]* with an impact, directly or indirectly, on investment and ancillary services provided by the investment firm or on its corporate behaviour, regardless of the type of clients, to the extent that the *[[2017R0565_EN.2#(5)|remuneration]]* of such persons and similar incentives may create a conflict of interest that encourages them to act against the interests of any of the firm's clients.
## 3.
The management body of the investment firm shall approve, after taking advice from the compliance function, the firm's *[[2017R0565_EN.2#(5)|remuneration]]* policy. The senior management of the investment firm shall be responsible for the day-to-day implementation of the *[[2017R0565_EN.2#(5)|remuneration]]* policy and the monitoring of compliance risks related to the policy.
## 4.
*[[2017R0565_EN.2#(5)|Remuneration]]* and similar incentives shall not be solely or predominantly based on quantitative commercial criteria, and shall take fully into account appropriate qualitative criteria reflecting compliance with the applicable regulations, the fair treatment of clients and the quality of services provided to clients.

A balance between fixed and variable components of *[[2017R0565_EN.2#(5)|remuneration]]* shall be maintained at all times, so that the *[[2017R0565_EN.2#(5)|remuneration]]* structure does not favour the interests of the investment firm or its *[[2017R0565_EN.2#(1)|relevant persons]]* against the interests of any client.