---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MIF2
surnom_texte_lvl2: Delegated
texte: 2017R0565
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014L0065
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2017R0565_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2017R0565_FR.65]]. Back to [[2014L0065_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Open the [[CELEX_02017R0565-20220802_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02017R0565-20220802).
>
> [[2017R0565_EN.64|Article 64 – Best execution criteria]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2017R0565_EN.66|Article 66 – Execution policy]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2014L0065_EN.24#4]], [[2014L0065_EN.24#1]]

# Article 65 - Duty of investment firms carrying out portfolio management and reception and transmission of orders to act in the best interests of the client

## 1.
Investment firms, when providing portfolio management, shall comply with the obligation under [[2014L0065_EN.24#1|Article 24(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU]] to act in accordance with the best interests of their clients when placing orders with other entities for execution that result from decisions by the investment firm to deal in financial instruments on behalf of its client.
## 2.
Investment firms, when providing the service of reception and transmission of orders, shall comply with the obligation under [[2014L0065_EN.24#1|Article 24(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU]] to act in accordance with the best interests of their clients when transmitting client orders to other entities for execution.
## 3.
In order to comply with paragraphs 1 or 2, investment firms shall comply with paragraphs 4 to 7 of this Article and [[2017R0565_EN.64#4|Article 64(4)]].
## 4.
Investment firms shall take all sufficient steps to obtain the best possible result for their clients taking into account the factors referred to in [[2014L0065_EN.27#1|Article 27(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU]]. The relative importance of these factors shall be determined by reference to the criteria set out in [[2017R0565_EN.64#1|Article 64(1)]] and, for retail clients, to the requirement under [[2014L0065_EN.27#1|Article 27(1) of Directive 2014/65/EU]].

An investment firm satisfies its obligations under paragraph 1 or 2, and is not required to take the steps mentioned in this paragraph, to the extent that it follows specific instructions from its client when placing an order with, or transmitting an order to, another entity for execution.
## 5.
Investment firms shall establish and implement a policy that enables them to comply with the obligation in paragraph 4. The policy shall identify, in respect of each class of instruments, the entities with which the orders are placed or to which the investment firm transmits orders for execution. The entities identified shall have execution arrangements that enable the investment firm to comply with its obligations under this Article when it places or transmits orders to that entity for execution.
## 6.
Investment firms shall provide information to their clients on the policy established in accordance with paragraph 5 and paragraphs 2 to 9 of [[2017R0565_EN.66|Article 66]]. Investment firms shall provide clients with appropriate information about the firm and its services and the entities chosen for execution. In particular, when the investment firm select other firms to provide order execution services, it shall summarise and make public, on an annual basis, for each class of financial instruments, the top five investment firms in terms of trading volumes where it transmitted or placed client orders for execution in the preceding year and information on the quality of execution obtained. The information shall be consistent with the information published in accordance with the technical standards developed under [[2014L0065_EN.27#10#b|Article 27(10)(b) of Directive 2014/65/EU]].

Upon reasonable request from a client, investment firms shall provide its clients *[[2017R0565_EN.2#1.|or potential clients]]* with information about entities where the orders are transmitted or placed for execution.
## 7.
Investment firms shall monitor on a regular basis the effectiveness of the policy established in accordance with paragraph 5 and, in particular, shall monitor the execution quality of the entities identified in that policy and, where appropriate, correct any deficiencies.

Investment firms shall review the policy and arrangements at least annually. Such a review shall also be carried out whenever a material change occurs that affects the firm's ability to continue to obtain the best possible result for their clients.

Investment firms shall assess whether a material change has occurred and shall consider making changes to the execution venues or entities on which they place significant reliance in meeting the overarching best execution requirement.

A material change shall be a significant event that could impact parameters of best execution such as cost, price, speed, likelihood of execution and settlement, size, nature or any other consideration relevant to the execution of the order.
## 8.
This Article shall not apply where the investment firm that provides the service of portfolio management or reception and transmission of orders also executes the orders received or the decisions to deal on behalf of its client's portfolio. In those cases [[2014L0065_EN.27|Article 27 of Directive 2014/65/EU]] shall apply.