---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MIF2
surnom_texte_lvl2: Delegated
texte: 2017R0565
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014L0065
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2017R0565_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2017R0565_FR.83]]. Back to [[2014L0065_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02017R0565-20220802).
>
> [[2017R0565_EN.82|Article 82 – Circumstances where a conduct indicating behaviour that is prohibited under Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 may be assumed]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2017R0565_EN.84|Article 84 – Obligation to provide market data on a reasonable commercial basis]]
>

> [!tip]- References LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2014L0065_EN.58#1]]

# Article 83 - Position reporting

## 1.
For the purpose of the weekly reports referred to in Art 58(1)(a) of Directive 2014/65/EU, the obligation for a trading venue to make public such a report shall apply when both of the following two thresholds are met:
### (a)
20 open position holders exist in a given contract on a given trading venue; and
### (b)
the absolute amount of the gross long or short volume of total open interest expressed in the number of lots of the relevant *[[2017R0565_EN.2#(6)|commodity]]* derivative is equal to, or exceeds, 10 000  lots.

For emission allowances and derivatives thereof, point (b) shall not apply.
## 2.
The threshold set out in point (a) of paragraph 1 shall apply in aggregate on the basis of all of the categories of persons regardless of the numbers of position holders in any single category of persons.
## 3.
For contracts where there are fewer than five position holders in a given category of persons, the aggregate long and short positions, changes thereto since the previous report, the percentage of the total open interest in that category and the number of position holders in that category shall not be published.
## 4.
For contracts that meet the conditions set out in points (a) and (b) of paragraph 1 for the first time, trading venues shall publish the contracts first weekly report as soon as it is feasibly practical, and in any event no later than 3 weeks from the date on which the thresholds are first triggered.
## 5.
Where the conditions set out in points (a) and (b) of paragraph 1 are no longer met, trading venues shall continue to publish the weekly reports for a period of three months. The obligation to publish the weekly report no longer applies where the conditions set out in points (a) and (b) of paragraph 1 have not been met continuously upon expiry of that period.