---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MIF2
surnom_texte_lvl2: Delegated
texte: 2017R0565
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014L0065
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2017R0565_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2017R0565_FR.25]]. Back to [[2014L0065_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Open the [[CELEX_02017R0565-20220802_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02017R0565-20220802).
>
> [[2017R0565_EN.24|Article 24 – Internal audit]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2017R0565_EN.26|Article 26 – Complaints handling]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2014L0065_EN.16#2]]

# Article 25 - Responsibility of senior management

## 1.
Investment firms shall, when allocating functions internally, ensure that senior management, and, where applicable, the supervisory function, are responsible for ensuring that the firm complies with its obligations under Directive 2014/65/EU. In particular, senior management and, where applicable, the supervisory function shall be required to assess and periodically review the effectiveness of the policies, arrangements and procedures put in place to comply with the obligations under Directive 2014/65/EU and to take appropriate measures to address any deficiencies.

The allocation of significant functions among senior managers shall clearly establish who is responsible for overseeing and maintaining the firm's organisational requirements. Records of the allocation of significant functions shall be kept up-to-date.
## 2.
Investment firms shall ensure that their senior management receive on a frequent basis, and at least annually, written reports on the matters covered by Articles [[2017R0565_EN.22|22]], [[2017R0565_EN.23|23]] and [[2017R0565_EN.24|24]] indicating in particular whether the appropriate remedial measures have been taken in the event of any deficiencies.
## 3.
Investment firms shall ensure that where there is a supervisory function, it receives written reports on the matters covered by Articles [[2017R0565_EN.22|22]], [[2017R0565_EN.23|23]] and [[2017R0565_EN.24|24]] on a regular basis.
## 4.
For the purposes of this Article, the supervisory function shall be the function within an investment firm responsible for the supervision of its senior management.