---
surnom_texte_lvl1: DORA
surnom_texte_lvl2: Criteria incident
texte: 2024R1772
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2022R2554
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2024R1772_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2024R1772_FR.3]]. Back to [[2022R2554_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Open the [[OJ_L_202401772_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2024/1772/oj).
>
> [[2024R1772_EN.2|Article 2 – Reputational impact]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2024R1772_EN.4|Article 4 – Geographical spread]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2022R2554_EN.18#1#b]]

# Article 3 - Duration and service downtime

## 1.
Financial entities shall measure the duration of an incident as referred to in [[2024R1772_EN.18#1|Article 18(1)]], point (b), of Regulation (EU) 2022/2554, from the moment the incident occurs until the moment when it is resolved.
Where financial entities are unable to determine the moment when the incident occurred, they shall measure the duration of the incident from the moment it was detected. Where financial entities become aware that the incident occurred prior to its detection, they shall measure the duration from the moment the incident is recorded in network or system logs or other data sources.

Where financial entities do not yet know when the incident will be resolved or are unable to verify records in logs or other data sources, they shall apply estimates.
## 2.
Financial entities shall measure the service downtime of an incident as referred to in [[2024R1772_EN.18#1|Article 18(1)]], point (b), of Regulation (EU) 2022/2554, from the moment the service is fully or partially unavailable to clients, financial counterparts or other internal or external users to the moment when regular activities or operations have been restored to the level of service that was provided prior to the incident. Where the service downtime causes a delay in the provision of service after regular activities or operations have been restored, the downtime shall be measured from the start of the incident to the moment when that delayed service is fully provided.
Where financial entities are unable to determine the moment when the service downtime started, they shall measure the service downtime from the moment it was detected.