---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MIFIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2014R0600
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014R0600
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2014R0600_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2014R0600_FR.27d ter]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02014R0600-20251123).
>
> [[2014R0600_EN.27da|Article 27da – Procedure for the selection of a single CTP for each asset class]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2014R0600_EN.27e|Article 27e – Withdrawal of authorisation]]
>

# Article 27db - Procedures for granting and refusing applications for authorisation of CTPs

## 1.
The applicant for authorisation referred to in Article 27da(4) shall provide all the information necessary to enable ESMA to confirm that the applicant has put in place, at the time of the application for authorisation, all the necessary arrangements to fulfil the criteria laid down in Article 27da(2).
## 2.
ESMA shall assess whether the application for authorisation is complete within 20 working days of receipt of the application.

Where the application for authorisation is not complete, ESMA shall set a deadline by which the applicant is to provide additional information.

After assessing the application for authorisation as complete, ESMA shall notify the applicant accordingly.
## 3.
Within three months of receipt of a complete application for authorisation, ESMA shall assess the compliance of the applicant with this Title. It shall adopt a reasoned decision granting or refusing authorisation and shall notify the applicant accordingly within five working days of the date of adoption of such reasoned decision. A decision granting authorisation shall specify the conditions under which the applicant is to operate.
## 4.
Following authorisation pursuant to paragraph 3, ESMA may grant the applicant authorised as a *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(35)|CTP]]* a transition period to put in place the necessary operational and technical arrangements.
## 5.
The *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(35)|CTP]]* shall comply at all times with the organisational requirements laid down in [[2014R0600_EN.27h|Article 27h]] and with the conditions laid down in the reasoned decision authorising the *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(35)|CTP]]* referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article.

A *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(35)|CTP]]* that is no longer able to comply with those requirements and conditions shall inform ESMA thereof without undue delay.
## 6.
The withdrawal of the authorisation referred to in [[2014R0600_EN.27e|Article 27e]] shall take effect only after a new *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(35)|CTP]]* has been selected and authorised for the asset class concerned in accordance with Articles [[2014R0600_EN.27d|27d]]a and 27db.
## 7.
ESMA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to determine:
### (a)
the information to be provided pursuant to paragraph 1;
### (b)
the information to be included in the notifications referred to in [[2014R0600_EN.27f#2|Article 27f(2)]] as regards *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(35)|CTPs]]*.

ESMA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to the Commission by 29 December 2024.

Power is delegated to the Commission to supplement this Regulation by adopting the regulatory technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in accordance with Articles [[2010R1095_EN.10|10]] to [[2010R1095_EN.14|14]] of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010.
## 8.
ESMA shall develop draft implementing technical standards to determine standard forms, templates and procedures for the information to be provided pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article and the information to be included in the notifications referred to [[2014R0600_EN.27f#2|Article 27f(2)]] as regards *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(35)|CTPs]]*.

ESMA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards to the Commission by 29 December 2024.

Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the implementing technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in accordance with [[2010R1095_EN.15|Article 15 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010]].