---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MIFIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2014R0600
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014R0600
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2014R0600_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2014R0600_FR.15]]. Open the [[CELEX_02014R0600-20251123_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02014R0600-20251123).
>
> [[2014R0600_EN.14|Article 14 – Obligation for systematic internalisers to make public firm quotes in respect of shares, depositary receipts, ETFs, certificates and other similar financial instruments]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2014R0600_EN.16|Article 16 – Obligations of competent authorities]]
>



# Article 15 - Execution of client orders

## 1.
*[[2014R0600_EN.2#(12)|Systematic internalisers]]* shall make public their quotes on a regular and continuous basis during normal trading hours. They may update their quotes at any time. They shall be allowed, under exceptional market conditions, to withdraw their quotes.

Member States shall require that firms that meet the definition of *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(12)|systematic internaliser]]* notify their *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(18)|competent authority]]*. Such notification shall be transmitted to ESMA. ESMA shall establish a list of all SIs in the Union.

*[[2014R0600_EN.2#(12)|Systematic internalisers]]* shall establish and implement transparent and non-discriminatory rules and objective criteria for the efficient execution of orders. They shall have arrangements for the sound management of their technical operations, including the establishment of effective contingency arrangements to address risks of systems disruption.
## 2.
*[[2014R0600_EN.2#(12)|Systematic internalisers]]* shall, while complying with Article 27 of Directive 2014/65//EU, execute the orders they receive from their *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(7)|clients]]* in relation to the shares, *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(25)|depositary receipts]]*, *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(26)|ETFs]]*, *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(27)|certificates]]* and other similar *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(9)|financial instruments]]* for which they are *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(12)|systematic internalisers]]* at the quoted prices at the time of reception of the order.

However, in justified cases, they may execute those orders at a better price provided that the price falls within a public range close to market conditions.
## 3.
*[[2014R0600_EN.2#(12)|Systematic internalisers]]* may execute orders they receive from their *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(8)|professional clients]]* at prices different than their quoted ones without having to comply with the requirements established in paragraph 2, in respect of transactions where execution in several securities is part of one transaction or in respect of orders that are subject to conditions other than the current market price.
## 4.
Where a *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(12)|systematic internaliser]]* quoting only one quote or whose highest quote is lower than the standard market size receives an order from a *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(7)|client]]* of a size bigger than its quotation size, but lower than the standard market size, it may decide to execute that part of the order which exceeds its quotation size, provided that it is executed at the quoted price, except where otherwise permitted under the conditions laid down in paragraphs 2 and 3. Where the *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(12)|systematic internaliser]]* is quoting in different sizes and receives an order between those sizes, which it chooses to execute, it shall execute the order at one of the quoted prices in compliance with [[2014L0065_EN.28|Article 28 of Directive 2014/65/EU]], except where otherwise permitted under the conditions of paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article.
## 5.
ESMA shall develop draft implementing technical standards to determine the content and format of the notification referred to in paragraph 1, second subparagraph.

ESMA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards to the Commission by 29 March 2025.

Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the implementing technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in accordance with [[2010R1095_EN.15|Article 15 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010]].