---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MIFIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2014R0600
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014R0600
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2014R0600_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2014R0600_FR.38 quarter]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02014R0600-20251123).
>
> [[2014R0600_EN.38b|Article 38b – Request for information]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2014R0600_EN.38d|Article 38d – On-site inspections]]
>

# Article 38c - General investigations

## 1.
In order to carry out its duties under this Regulation, ESMA may conduct necessary investigations of persons referred to in [[2014R0600_EN.38b#1|Article 38b(1)]]. To that end, the officials and other persons authorised by ESMA shall be empowered to:
### (a)
examine any records, data, procedures and any other material relevant to the execution of its tasks irrespective of the medium on which they are stored;
### (b)
take or obtain certified copies of or extracts from such records, data, procedures and other material;
### (c)
summon and ask any person referred to in [[2014R0600_EN.38b#1|Article 38b(1)]] or their representatives or staff for oral or written explanations on facts or documents relating to the subject matter and purpose of the inspection and to record the answers;
### (d)
interview any other natural or legal person who consents to be interviewed for the purpose of collecting information relating to the subject matter of an investigation;
### (e)
request records of telephone and data traffic.
## 2.
The officials and other persons authorised by ESMA for the purposes of the investigations referred to in paragraph 1 shall exercise their powers upon production of a written authorisation specifying the subject matter and purpose of the investigation. That authorisation shall also indicate the periodic penalty payments provided for in [[2014R0600_EN.38i|Article 38i]] where the production of the required records, data, procedures or any other material, or the answers to questions asked to persons referred to in [[2014R0600_EN.38b#1|Article 38b(1)]] are not provided or are incomplete, and the fines provided for in [[2014R0600_EN.38h|Article 38h]], where the answers to questions asked to persons referred to in [[2014R0600_EN.38b#1|Article 38b(1)]] are incorrect or misleading.
## 3.
The persons referred to in [[2014R0600_EN.38b#1|Article 38b(1)]] are required to submit to investigations launched on the basis of a decision of ESMA. The decision shall specify the subject matter and purpose of the investigation, the periodic penalty payments provided for in [[2014R0600_EN.38i|Article 38i]], the legal remedies available under Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010 and the right to have the decision reviewed by the Court of Justice.
## 4.
In good time before an investigation referred to in paragraph 1, ESMA shall inform the *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(18)|competent authority]]* of the Member State where the investigation is to be carried out of the investigation and of the identity of the authorised persons. Officials of the *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(18)|competent authority]]* concerned shall, upon the request of ESMA, assist those authorised persons in carrying out their duties. Officials of the *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(18)|competent authority]]* concerned may also attend the investigations upon request.
## 5.
If a request for records of telephone or data traffic referred to in point (e) of paragraph 1 requires authorisation from a judicial authority according to applicable national law, such authorisation shall be applied for. Such authorisation may also be applied for as a precautionary measure.
## 6.
Where a national judicial authority receives an application for the authorisation of a request for records of telephone or data traffic referred to in point (e) of paragraph 1, that authority shall verify the following:
### (a)
the decision adopted by ESMA referred to in paragraph 3 is authentic;
### (b)
any measures to be taken are proportionate and not arbitrary or excessive.

For the purposes of point (b), the national judicial authority may ask ESMA for detailed explanations, in particular relating to the grounds ESMA has for suspecting that an infringement of this Regulation has taken place and the seriousness of the suspected infringement and the nature of the involvement of the person subject to the coercive measures. However, the national judicial authority shall not review the necessity for the investigation or demand that it be provided with the information on ESMA’s file. The lawfulness of ESMA’s decision shall be subject to review only by the Court of Justice following the procedure set out in Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010.