---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MIFIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2014R0600
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014R0600
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2014R0600_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2014R0600_FR.27 octies]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02014R0600-20251123).
>
> [[2014R0600_EN.27f|Article 27f – Requirements for the management body of a data reporting services provider]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2014R0600_EN.27h|Article 27h – Organisational requirements for CTPs]]
>

# Article 27g - Organisational requirements for APAs

## 1.
An *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(34)|APA]]* shall have adequate policies and arrangements in place to make public the information required under Articles [[2014R0600_EN.20|20]] and [[2014R0600_EN.21|21]] as close to real time as is technically possible, on a reasonable commercial basis. The information shall be made available free of charge 15 minutes after the *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(34)|APA]]* has published it. The *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(34)|APA]]* shall efficiently and consistently disseminate such information in a way that ensures fast access to the information, on a non-discriminatory basis and in a format that facilitates the consolidation of the information with similar data from other sources.
## 2.
The information made public by an *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(34)|APA]]* in accordance with paragraph 1 shall include, at least, the following details:
### (a)
the identifier of the *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(9)|financial instrument]]*;
### (b)
the price at which the transaction was concluded;
### (c)
the volume of the transaction;
### (d)
the time of the transaction;
### (e)
the time the transaction was reported;
### (f)
the price notation of the transaction;
### (g)
the code for the *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(16)|trading venue]]* the transaction was executed on, or where the transaction was executed via a *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(12)|systematic internaliser]]* the code ‘SI’ or otherwise the code ‘OTC’;
### (h)
if applicable, an indicator that the transaction was subject to specific conditions.
## 3.
An *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(34)|APA]]* shall operate and maintain effective administrative arrangements designed to prevent conflicts of interest with its *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(7)|clients]]*. In particular, an *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(34)|APA]]* who is also a *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(10)|market operator]]* or *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(1)|investment firm]]* shall treat all information collected in a non-discriminatory way and shall operate and maintain appropriate arrangements to separate different business functions.
## 4.
An *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(34)|APA]]* shall comply with the requirements concerning the security of network and information systems set out in Regulation (EU) 2022/2554 of the European Parliament and of the Council.
## 4a.
An *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(34)|APA]]* shall have objective, non-discriminatory and publicly disclosed requirements for access to its services by undertakings that are subject to the transparency requirements laid down in Article 20(1) and [[2014R0600_EN.21#1|Article 21(1)]].

An *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(34)|APA]]* shall publicly disclose the prices and fees associated with the data reporting services provided pursuant to this Regulation. It shall disclose separately the prices and fees of each service provided, including discounts and rebates and the conditions for benefiting from them. It shall allow reporting entities to access specific services separately.
## 4b.
An *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(34)|APA]]* shall keep records relating to its business at the disposal of the relevant *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(18)|competent authority]]* or ESMA for at least five years.
## 5.
The *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(34)|APA]]* shall have systems in place that can effectively check trade reports for completeness, identify omissions and obvious errors, and request re-transmission of any such erroneous reports.
## 6.
ESMA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to determine common formats, data standards and technical arrangements facilitating the consolidation of information as referred to in paragraph 1.

Power is delegated to the Commission to supplement this Regulation by adopting the regulatory technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in accordance with Articles [[2010R1095_EN.10|10]] to [[2010R1095_EN.14|14]] of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010.

—————
## 8.
ESMA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards specifying:
### (a)
the means by which an *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(34)|APA]]* may comply with the information obligation referred to in paragraph 1;
### (b)
the content of the information published under paragraph 1, including at least the information referred to in paragraph 2 in such a way as to enable the publication of information required under this Article;
### (c)
the concrete organisational requirements laid down in paragraphs 3 and 5.

Power is delegated to the Commission to supplement this Regulation by adopting the regulatory technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in accordance with Articles [[2010R1095_EN.10|10]] to [[2010R1095_EN.14|14]] of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010.