---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MIFIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2014R0600
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014R0600
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2014R0600_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2014R0600_FR.5]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02014R0600-20251123).
>
> [[2014R0600_EN.4|Article 4 – Waivers for equity instruments]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2014R0600_EN.6|Article 6 – Post-trade transparency requirements for trading venues in respect of shares, depositary receipts, ETFs, certificates and other similar financial instruments]]
>

# Article 5 - Volume cap


Volume cap
## 1.
*[[2014R0600_EN.2#(16)|Trading venues]]* shall suspend their use of the waiver referred to in [[2014R0600_EN.4#1|Article 4(1)]], point (a), where the percentage of trading in a *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(9)|financial instrument]]* in the Union carried out under that waiver exceeds 7 % of the total volume of trading in that *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(9)|financial instrument]]* in the Union. *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(16)|Trading venues]]* shall base their decision to suspend the use of that waiver on the data published by ESMA in accordance with paragraph 4 of this Article, and shall take such decision within two working days of the publication of those data and for a period of three months.

—————
## 4.
ESMA shall publish within seven working days of the end of March, June, September and December of each calendar year the total volume of trading in the Union per *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(9)|financial instrument]]* in the previous 12 months, the percentages of trading in each *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(9)|financial instrument]]* carried out across the Union under the waiver referred to in [[2014R0600_EN.4#1|Article 4(1)]], point (a), and the methodology that is used to derive those percentages of trading in each *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(9)|financial instrument]]*.

—————
## 7.
In order to ensure a reliable basis for monitoring the trading taking place under the waiver referred to in [[2014R0600_EN.4#1|Article 4(1)]], point (a), and for determining whether the limit referred to in paragraph 1 has been exceeded, operators of *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(16)|trading venues]]* shall have in place systems and procedures to enable the identification of all trades which have taken place on their venue under that waiver.
## 8.
The period for the publication of trading data by ESMA, and for which trading in a *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(9)|financial instrument]]* under the waiver is to be monitored, shall start on 29 September 2025.
## 9.
ESMA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to specify the method, including the flagging of transactions, by which it collates, calculates and publishes the transaction data, as outlined in paragraph 4, in order to provide an accurate measurement of the total volume of trading per *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(9)|financial instrument]]* and the percentages of trading that use the waiver across the Union.

ESMA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to the Commission by 29 March 2025.

Power is delegated to the Commission to supplement this Regulation by adopting the regulatory technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in accordance with Articles [[2010R1095_EN.10|10]] to [[2010R1095_EN.14|14]] of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010.
## 10.
By 29 September 2027, and every year thereafter, ESMA shall submit to the Commission a report assessing the volume-cap threshold set in paragraph 1, taking into account financial stability, international best practices, the competitiveness of Union firms, the significance of the market impact and the efficiency of price formation.

The Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with [[2014R0600_EN.50|Article 50]] to amend this Regulation by adjusting the volume-cap threshold set in paragraph 1 of this Article. For the purposes of this subparagraph, the Commission shall take into account the report from ESMA referred to in the first subparagraph of this paragraph, international developments and standards agreed at Union or international level.