---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MIFIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2014R0600
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014R0600
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2014R0600_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2014R0600_FR.38 duodecies]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02014R0600-20251123).
>
> [[2014R0600_EN.38j|Article 38j – Disclosure, nature, enforcement and allocation of fines and periodic penalty payments]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2014R0600_EN.38l|Article 38l – Hearing of the persons concerned]]
>

# Article 38k - Procedural rules for taking supervisory measures and imposing fines

## 1.
Where, in carrying out its duties under this Regulation, ESMA finds that there are serious indications of the possible existence of facts liable to constitute one or more of the infringements of the requirements provided for in Title IVa, ESMA shall appoint an independent investigation officer within ESMA to investigate the matter. The appointed officer shall not be involved or have been directly or indirectly involved in the supervision or the authorisation process of the *[[2014R0600_EN.2#(36a)|data reporting services provider]]* concerned and shall perform its functions independently from ESMA.
## 2.
The investigation officer referred to in paragraph 1 shall investigate the alleged infringements, taking into account any comments submitted by the persons who are subject to the investigations, and shall submit a complete file with his or her findings to ESMA.
## 3.
In order to carry out his or her tasks, the investigation officer may exercise the power to request information in accordance with [[2014R0600_EN.38b|Article 38b]] and to conduct investigations and on-site inspections in accordance with Articles [[2014R0600_EN.38c|38c]] and [[2014R0600_EN.38d|38d]].
## 4.
Where carrying out his or her tasks, the investigation officer shall have access to all documents and information gathered by ESMA in its supervisory activities.
## 5.
Upon completion of his or her investigation and before submitting the file with his or her findings to ESMA, the investigation officer shall give the persons subject to the investigations the opportunity to be heard on the matters being investigated. The investigation officer shall base his or her findings only on facts on which the persons concerned have had the opportunity to comment.
## 6.
The rights of the defence of the persons subject to the investigation shall be fully respected during investigations under this Article.
## 7.
When submitting the file with his or her findings to ESMA, the investigation officer shall notify the persons who are subject to the investigation. The persons subject to the investigations shall be entitled to have access to the file, subject to the legitimate interest of other persons in the protection of their business secrets. The right of access to the file shall not extend to confidential information affecting third parties.
## 8.
On the basis of the file containing the investigation officer’s findings and, when requested by the persons subject to the investigation, after having heard those persons in accordance with [[2014R0600_EN.38l|Article 38l]], ESMA shall decide if one or more of the infringements of the requirements provided for in Title IVa have been committed by the persons subject to the investigation and, in such a case, shall take a supervisory measure in accordance with [[2014R0600_EN.38g|Article 38g]].
## 9.
The investigation officer shall not participate in ESMA’s deliberations or in any other way intervene in ESMA’s decision-making process.
## 10.
The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with [[2014R0600_EN.50|Article 50]] by 1 October 2021 to further specify the rules of procedure for the exercise of the power to impose fines or periodic penalty payments, including provisions on the rights of the defence, temporal provisions, and the collection of fines or periodic penalty payments, and the limitation periods for the imposition and enforcement of fines and periodic penalty payments.
## 11.
ESMA shall refer matters for criminal prosecution to the relevant national authorities where, in carrying out its duties under this Regulation, it finds that there are serious indications of the possible existence of facts liable to constitute a criminal offence. In addition, ESMA shall refrain from imposing fines or periodic penalty payments where a prior acquittal or conviction arising from identical fact or facts which are substantially the same has already acquired the force of

res judicata

as the result of criminal proceedings under national law.