---
surnom_texte_lvl1: CCPRR
surnom_texte_lvl2: Compensation client
texte: 2023R1615
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2021R0023
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2023R1615_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2023R1615_FR.3]]. Back to [[2021R0023_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Open the [[CELEX_32023R1615_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32023R1615).
>
> [[2023R1615_EN.2|Article 2 – Form of the reimbursement]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2023R1615_EN.4|Article 4 – Type of reimbursement and delivery]]
>



# Article 3 - Distribution of the reimbursement

## 1.
Clearing service providers shall, in a fair and non-discriminatory manner, distribute the relevant reimbursement among all clearing service users that have made a qualifying contribution, including clearing service users that are no longer clearing service users of the clearing service provider receiving the reimbursement, proportionally to the qualifying contribution made by each of those clearing service users.
## 2.
Clearing service providers shall calculate the reimbursement to be distributed in a transparent manner and inform each clearing service user separately in accordance with [[2023R1615_EN.5#2|Article 5(2)]], point (c).
## 3.
Clearing service providers shall allocate the reimbursement to their own accounts and to the accounts of their clearing service users that made a qualifying contribution on the basis of a calculation of the qualifying contribution made and shall not discriminate between different recipients, nor rank them. Clearing service providers shall not allocate any part of the reimbursement to their own account before having allocated to the accounts of their clearing service users that made a qualifying contribution the part of the reimbursement to which those clearing service users are entitled.
## 4.
Clearing service providers may apply deductions from or set-off towards the reimbursement where a clearing service user owes an obligation that is due and payable to a clearing service provider that is under the obligation, in accordance with [[2021R0023_EN.63|Article 63 of Regulation (EU) 23/2021]], to pass on reimbursement to that same clearing service user.
However, where the recipient is also a clearing service provider, the reimbursement to be passed on to its clearing service users shall be calculated based on the reimbursement that was to be received by the clearing service provider before any deductions or set-off as referred to in the first subparagraph were made.
## 5.
A clearing service provider shall hold the reimbursement received pursuant to [[2023R1615_EN.27#6|Article 27(6)]] or 62 of Regulation (EU) 2021/23 on a separate and segregated account until all reimbursements due are fully distributed.