---
surnom_texte_lvl1: EMIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: Requirement CCP
texte: 2013R0153
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0648
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2013R0153_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2013R0153_FR.59]]. Back to [[2012R0648_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Open the [[CELEX_02013R0153-20240307_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02013R0153-20240307).
>
> [[2013R0153_EN.58|Article 58 – Testing default procedures]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2013R0153_EN.60|Article 60 – The time horizons]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2012R0648_EN.49]]

# Article 59 - Frequency

## 1.
A CCP shall conduct a comprehensive validation of its models and their methodologies at least annually.
## 2.
A CCP shall conduct a comprehensive validation of its liquidity risk management framework at least annually.
## 3.
A CCP shall conduct a full validation of its valuation models at least annually.
## 4.
A CCP shall review the appropriateness of the policies specified in [[2013R0153_EN.51|Article 51]] at least annually.
## 5.
A CCP shall analyse and monitor its model performance and financial resources coverage in the event of defaults by back testing margin coverage at least daily and conducting at least daily stress testing using standard and predetermined parameters and assumptions.
## 6.
A CCP shall analyse and monitor its liquidity risk management framework by conducting at least daily stress tests of its liquid financial resources.
## 7.
A CCP shall conduct a detailed thorough analysis of testing results at least on a monthly basis in order to ensure its stress testing scenarios, models and liquidity risk management framework, underlying parameters and assumptions are correct. Such analysis shall be conducted more frequently in stressed market conditions, including when the financial instruments cleared or markets served in general display high volatility, become less liquid, or when the size or concentrations of positions held by its clearing members increase significantly or when it is anticipated that a CCP will encounter stressed market conditions.
## 8.
Sensitivity analysis shall be conducted at least monthly, using the results of sensitivity tests. This analysis should be conducted more frequently when markets are unusually volatile or less liquid or when the size or concentrations of positions held by its clearing members increase significantly.
## 9.
A CCP shall test offsets among financial instruments and how correlations perform during periods of actual and hypothetical severe market conditions at least annually.
## 10.
A CCP’s haircuts shall be tested at least monthly.
## 11.
A CCP shall conduct reverse stress tests at least quarterly.
## 12.
A CCP shall test and review its default procedures at least quarterly and perform simulation exercises at least annually, in accordance with [[2013R0153_EN.61|Article 61]]. A CCP shall also perform simulation exercises following any material change to its default procedures.