---
surnom_texte_lvl1: EMIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: Requirement CCP
texte: 2013R0153
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0648
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2013R0153_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2013R0153_FR.8]]. Back to [[2012R0648_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02013R0153-20240307).
>
> [[2013R0153_EN.7|Article 7 – Organisational structure and separation of the reporting lines]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2013R0153_EN.9|Article 9 – Information technology systems]]
>

> [!tip]- References LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2012R0648_EN.26]]# Article 8 - Remuneration policy

## 1.
The remuneration committee shall design and further develop the remuneration policy, oversee its implementation by senior management and review its practical operation on a regular basis. The policy itself shall be documented and reviewed at least on an annual basis.
## 2.
The remuneration policy shall be designed to align the level and structure of remuneration with prudent risk management. The policy shall account for prospective risks as well as existing risks and risk outcomes. Pay out schedules shall be sensitive to the time horizon of risks. In particular in the case of variable remuneration the policy shall take due account of possible mismatches of performance and risk periods and shall ensure that payments are deferred as appropriate. The fixed and variable components of total remuneration shall be balanced and shall be consistent with risk alignment.
## 3.
The remuneration policy shall provide that staff engaged in risk management, compliance and internal audit functions are remunerated in a manner that is independent of the business performance of the CCP. The level of remuneration shall be adequate in terms of responsibility as well as in comparison to the level of remuneration in the business areas.
## 4.
The remuneration policy shall be subject to independent audit, on an annual basis. The results of these audits shall be made available to the competent authority.