---
surnom_texte_lvl1: EMIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: Requirement CCP
texte: 2013R0153
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0648
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2013R0153_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2013R0153_FR.5]]. Back to [[2012R0648_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Open the [[CELEX_02013R0153-20240307_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02013R0153-20240307).
>
> [[2013R0153_EN.4|Article 4 – Risk management and internal control mechanisms]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2013R0153_EN.6|Article 6 – Compliance function]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2012R0648_EN.26]]

# Article 5 - Compliance policy and procedures

## 1.
A CCP shall establish, implement and maintain adequate policies and procedures designed to detect any risk of failure by the CCP and its employees to comply with the its obligations under this Regulation, Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 and Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1249/2012, as well as the associated risks, and put in place adequate measures and procedures designed to minimise such risk and to enable the competent authorities to exercise their powers effectively under these Regulations.
## 2.
A CCP shall ensure that its rules, procedures and contractual arrangements are clear and comprehensive and they ensure compliance with this Regulation, Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 and Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1249/2012 as well as all other applicable regulatory and supervisory requirements.

The rules, procedures and contractual arrangements of the CCP shall be recorded in writing or another durable medium. These rules, procedures, and contractual arrangements and any accompanying material shall be accurate, up-to-date and readily available to the competent authority, clearing members and, where appropriate, clients.

A CCP shall identify and analyse the soundness of the rules, procedures and contractual arrangements of the CCP. If necessary, independent legal opinions shall be sought for the purpose of this analysis. The CCP shall have a process for proposing and implementing changes to its rules and procedures and prior to implementing any material changes to consult with all affected clearing members and submit the proposed changes to the competent authority.
## 3.
In developing its rules, procedures and contractual arrangements a CCP shall consider relevant regulatory principles and industry standards and market protocols and clearly indicate where such practices have been incorporated into the documentation governing the rights and obligations of the CCP, its clearing members and other relevant third parties.
## 4.
A CCP shall identify and analyse potential conflicts of law issues and develop rules and procedures to mitigate legal risk resulting from such issues. If necessary, independent legal opinions shall be sought by the CCP for the purpose of this analysis.

A CCP’s rules and procedures shall clearly indicate the law that is intended to apply to each aspect of the CCP’s activities and operations.