---
surnom_texte_lvl1: EMIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: Requirement CCP
texte: 2013R0153
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0648
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2013R0153_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2013R0153_FR.49]]. Back to [[2012R0648_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02013R0153-20240307).
>
> [[2013R0153_EN.48|Article 48 – Testing programmes]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2013R0153_EN.50|Article 50 – Sensitivity testing and analysis procedure]]
>

> [!tip]- References LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2012R0648_EN.49]]

# Article 49 - Back testing procedure

## 1.
A CCP shall assess its margin coverage by performing an

ex-post

comparison of observed outcomes with expected outcomes derived from the use of margin models. Such back testing analysis shall be performed each day in order to evaluate whether there are any *[[2013R0153_EN.1#(10)|testing exceptions]]* to margin coverage. Coverage shall be evaluated on current positions for financial instruments, clearing members and take into account possible effects from portfolio margining and, where appropriate, interoperable CCPs.
## 2.
A CCP shall consider the appropriate historical time horizons for its back testing programme to ensure that the observation window used is sufficient enough to mitigate any detrimental effect on the statistical significance.
## 3.
A CCP shall consider in its back testing programme, at least, clear statistical tests, and performance criteria to be defined by CCPs for the assessment of back testing results.
## 4.
A CCP shall periodically report its back testing results and analysis in a form that does not breach confidentiality to the risk committee in order to seek their advice in the review of its margin model.
## 5.
Back testing results and analysis shall be made available to all clearing members and, where known to the CCP, clients. For all other clients back testing results and analysis shall be made available by the relevant clearing members on request. Such information shall be aggregated in a form that does not breach confidentiality and clearing members and clients shall only have access to detailed back testing results and analysis for their own portfolios.
## 6.
A CCP shall define the procedures to detail the actions it could take given the results of back testing analysis.