---
surnom_texte_lvl1: EMIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: Requirement CCP
texte: 2013R0153
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0648
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2013R0153_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2013R0153_FR.45]]. Back to [[2012R0648_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02013R0153-20240307).
>
> [[2013R0153_EN.44|Article 44 – Highly secured arrangements for the deposit of financial instruments]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2013R0153_EN.46|Article 46 – Non-cash collateral]]
>

> [!tip]- References LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2012R0648_EN.47]]

# Article 45 - Concentration limits

## 1.
A CCP shall establish and implement policies and procedures to ensure that the financial instruments in which its financial resources are invested remain sufficiently diversified.
## 2.
A CCP shall determine concentration limits and monitor the concentration of its financial resources at the level of:
### (a)
individual financial instruments;
### (b)
types of financial instruments;
### (c)
individual issuers;
### (d)
types of issuers;
### (e)
counterparties with which arrangements as provided for in points (b) and (c) of [[2013R0153_EN.44#1|Article 44(1)]] or in [[2013R0153_EN.45#2|Article 45(2)]] are established.
## 3.
When considering types of issuers a CCP shall take into account the following:
### (a)
geographic distribution;
### (b)
interdependencies and multiple relationships that an entity may have with a CCP;
### (c)
the level of credit risk;
### (d)
exposures the CCP have to the issuer through products cleared by the CCP.
## 4.
The policies and the procedures shall determine the risk mitigation measures to be applied when the concentration limits are exceeded.
## 5.
When determining the concentration limit for a CCP’s exposure to an individual issuer or custodian, a CCP shall aggregate and treat as a single risk, the exposure to all financial instruments issued by, or explicitly guaranteed by, the issuer and all financial resources deposited with the custodian.
## 6.
A CCP shall monitor on a regular basis the adequacy of its concentration limit policies and procedures. In addition, a CCP shall review its concentration limit policy and procedure at least annually and whenever a material change occurs that affects the risk exposure of the CCP.
## 7.
If the CCP breaches a concentration limit set out in its policies and procedures, it shall inform the competent authority immediately. The CCP shall rectify the breach as soon as possible.