---
surnom_texte_lvl1: EMIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: Requirement CCP
texte: 2013R0153
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0648
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2013R0153_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2013R0153_FR.42]]. Back to [[2012R0648_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Open the [[CELEX_02013R0153-20240307_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02013R0153-20240307).
>
> [[2013R0153_EN.41|Article 41 – Haircuts]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2013R0153_EN.43|Article 43 – Highly liquid financial instruments]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2012R0648_EN.46]]

# Article 42 - Concentration limits

## 1.
A CCP shall establish and implement policies and procedures to ensure that the collateral remains sufficiently diversified to allow its liquidation within a defined holding period without a significant market impact. The policies and the procedures shall determine the risk mitigation measures to be applied when the concentration limits specified in paragraph 2 are exceeded.
## 2.
A CCP shall determine concentration limits at the level of:
### (a)
individual issuers;
### (b)
type of issuer;
### (c)
type of asset;
### (d)
each clearing member;
### (e)
all clearing members.
## 3.
Concentration limits shall be determined in a conservative manner taking into account all relevant criteria, including:
### (a)
financial instruments issued by issuers of the same type in terms of economic sector, activity, geographic region;
### (b)
the level of credit risk of the financial instrument or of the issuer based upon an internal assessment by the CCP. In performing such assessment the CCP shall employ a defined and objective methodology that shall not fully rely on external opinions and that takes into consideration the risk arising from the establishment of the issuer in a particular country;
### (c)
the liquidity and the price volatility of the financial instruments.
## 4.
A CCP shall ensure that no more than 10 % of its collateral is guaranteed by a single credit institution, or equivalent third country financial institution, or by an entity that is part of the same group as the credit institution or third country financial institution. Where the collateral received by the CCP in the form of commercial bank guarantees is higher than 50 % of the total collateral, this limit may be set up to 25 %.
## 5.
In calculating the limits provided for in paragraph 2, a CCP shall include the total exposure of a CCP to an issuer, including the amount of the cumulative credit lines, certificates of deposit, time deposits, savings accounts, deposit accounts, current accounts, money-market instruments, and reverse repurchase facilities utilised by the CCP. These limits shall not apply to collateral held by the CCP in excess of the minimum requirements for *[[2013R0153_EN.1#(4)|margins]]*, default fund or other financial resources.
## 6.
When determining the concentration limit for a CCP’s exposure to an individual issuer, a CCP shall aggregate and treat as a single risk its exposure to all financial instruments issued by the issuer or by a group entity, explicitly guaranteed by the issuer or by a group entity, and to financial instruments issued by undertakings whose exclusive purpose is to own means of production that are essential for the issuer’s business.
## 7.
A CCP shall monitor on a regular basis the adequacy of its concentration limit policies and procedures. A CCP shall review its concentration limit policy and procedure at least annually and whenever a material change occurs that affects the risk exposure of the CCP.
## 8.
A CCP shall inform the competent authority and the clearing members of the applicable concentration limits and of any amendment to these limits.
## 9.
If the CCP materially breaches a concentration limit set out in its policies and procedures, it shall inform the competent authority immediately. The CCP shall rectify the breach as soon as possible.