---
surnom_texte_lvl1: Transparence
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2004L0109
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2004L0109
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2004L0109_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2004L0109_FR.25]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02004L0109-20240109).
>
> [[2004L0109_EN.24|Article 24 – Competent authorities and their powers]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2004L0109_EN.26|Article 26 – Precautionary measures]]
>

# Article 25 - Professional secrecy and cooperation between Member States

## 1.
The obligation of professional secrecy shall apply to all persons who work or who have worked for the competent authority and for entities to which competent authorities may have delegated certain tasks. Information covered by professional secrecy may not be disclosed to any other person or authority except by virtue of the laws, regulations or administrative provisions of a Member State.
## 2.
Competent authorities of the Member States shall cooperate with each other, whenever necessary, for the purpose of carrying out their duties and making use of their powers, whether set out in this Directive or in national law adopted pursuant to this Directive. Competent authorities shall render assistance to competent authorities of other Member States.

In the exercise of their sanctioning and investigative powers, competent authorities shall cooperate to ensure that sanctions or measures produce the desired results, and shall coordinate their action when dealing with cross-border cases.
## 2a.
The competent authorities may refer to *[[2004L0109_EN.2#9.|ESMA]]* situations where a request for cooperation has been rejected or has not been acted upon within a reasonable time. Without prejudice to the Article 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), *[[2004L0109_EN.2#9.|ESMA]]* may, in situations referred to in the first sentence, act in accordance with the powers conferred on it under [[2010R1095_EN.19|Article 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010]].
## 2b.
The competent authorities shall cooperate with *[[2004L0109_EN.2#9.|ESMA]]* for the purposes of this Directive, in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010.
## 2c.
The competent authorities shall without delay provide *[[2004L0109_EN.2#9.|ESMA]]* with all information necessary to carry out its duties under this Directive and under Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010, in accordance with Article 35 of that Regulation.
## 3.
Paragraph 1 shall not prevent the competent authorities from exchanging confidential information with, or from transmitting information to, other competent authorities, *[[2004L0109_EN.2#9.|ESMA]]* and the European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB) established by Regulation (EU) No 1092/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 on European Union macro-prudential oversight of the financial system and establishing a European Systemic Risk Board.
Information thus exchanged shall be covered by the obligation of professional secrecy to which the persons employed or formerly employed by the competent authorities receiving the information are subject.
## 4.
Member States and *[[2004L0109_EN.2#9.|ESMA]]* in accordance with [[2010R1095_EN.33|Article 33 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010]], may conclude cooperation agreements providing for the exchange of information with the competent authorities or bodies of third countries enabled by their respective legislation to carry out any tasks under this Directive in accordance with [[2004L0109_EN.24|Article 24]]. Member States shall notify *[[2004L0109_EN.2#9.|ESMA]]* when they conclude cooperation agreements. Such an exchange of information is subject to guarantees of professional secrecy at least equivalent to those referred to in this Article. Such an exchange of information shall be intended for the performance of the supervisory task of the authorities or bodies mentioned. Where the information originates in another Member State, it shall not be disclosed without the express agreement of the competent authorities which disclosed it and, where appropriate, solely for the purposes for which those authorities gave their agreement.