---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MIF2
surnom_texte_lvl2: RTS22 Report transac
texte: 2017R0590
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014L0065
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2017R0590_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2017R0590_FR.6]]. Back to [[2014L0065_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Open the [[CELEX_32017R0590_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32017R0590).
>
> [[2017R0590_EN.5|Article 5 – Identification of the investment firm executing a transaction]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2017R0590_EN.7|Article 7 – Details of the identity of the client and identifier and details for the decision maker]]
>



# Article 6 - Designation to identify natural persons

## 1.
A natural person shall be identified in a transaction report using the designation resulting from the concatenation of the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 (2 letter country code) of the nationality of the person, followed by the national client identifier listed in Annex II based on the nationality of the person.
## 2.
The national client identifier referred to in paragraph 1 shall be assigned in accordance with the priority levels provided in Annex II using the highest priority identifier that a person has regardless of whether that identifier is already known to the investment firm.
## 3.
Where a natural person is a national of more than one European Economic Area (EEA) country, the country code of the first nationality when sorted alphabetically by its ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code and the identifier of that nationality assigned in accordance with paragraph 2 shall be used. Where a natural person has a non-EEA nationality, the highest priority identifier in accordance with the field referring to ‘all other countries’ provided in Annex II shall be used. Where a natural person has EEA and non-EEA nationality, the country code of the EEA nationality and the highest priority identifier of that nationality assigned in accordance with paragraph 2 shall be used.
## 4.
Where the identifier assigned in accordance with paragraph 2 refers to CONCAT, the natural person shall be identified by the investment firm using the concatenation of the following elements in the following order:
### (a)
the date of birth of the person in the format YYYYMMDD;
### (b)
the five first characters of the first name;
### (c)
the five first characters of the surname.
## 5.
For the purposes of paragraph 4, prefixes to names shall be excluded and first names and surnames shorter than five characters shall be appended by ‘#’ so as to ensure that references to names and surnames in accordance with paragraph 4 contain five characters. All characters shall be in upper case. No apostrophes, accents, hyphens, punctuation marks or spaces shall be used.