---
surnom_texte_lvl1: EMIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: Capital CCP
texte: 2013R0152
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0648
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2013R0152_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2013R0152_FR.2]]. Back to [[2012R0648_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32013R0152).
>
> [[2013R0152_EN.1|Article 1 – Capital requirements]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2013R0152_EN.3|Article 3 – Capital requirements for operational and legal risks]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2012R0648_EN.16]]# Article 2 - Capital requirements for winding down or restructuring

## 1.
A CCP shall divide its annual gross operational expenses by twelve in order to determine its monthly gross operational expenses, and multiply the resulting number by its time span for winding down or restructuring its activities determined according to paragraph 2. The result of this calculation is the capital required to ensure an orderly winding down or restructuring of the activities of the CCP.
## 2.
In order to determine the time span for winding down or restructuring its activities referred to in paragraph 1, a CCP shall submit to the competent authority for approval in accordance with that competent authority’s powers under Title III of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 its own estimate of the appropriate time span for winding down or restructuring its activities. The estimated time span shall be sufficient to ensure, including in stressed market conditions, an orderly winding down or restructuring of its activities, reorganising its operations, liquidating its clearing portfolio or transferring its clearing activities to another CCP. The estimate shall take into account the liquidity, size, maturity structure and potential cross-border obstacles of the positions of the CCP and the type of products cleared. The time span for winding down or restructuring its activities used for the calculation of the capital requirement is subject to a minimum number of six months.
## 3.
A CCP shall update its estimate of the appropriate time span for winding down or restructuring its activities whenever there is a significant change in the assumptions underlying the estimation and submit this updated estimate to the competent authority for approval.
## 4.
For the purposes of this Article, operational expenses shall be considered in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adopted pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 or, in accordance with Council Directives 78/660/EEC

, 83/349/EEC


and 86/635/EEC


or, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles of a third country determined to be equivalent to IFRS in accordance with Commission Regulation (EC) No 1569/2007


or accounting standards of a third country the use of which is permitted in accordance with Article 4 of that Regulation, as applicable. CCPs shall use the most recent audited information from their annual financial statement.