---
surnom_texte_lvl1: EMIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: Capital CCP
texte: 2013R0152
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0648
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2013R0152_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2013R0152_FR.3]]. Back to [[2012R0648_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32013R0152).
>
> [[2013R0152_EN.2|Article 2 – Capital requirements for winding down or restructuring]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2013R0152_EN.4|Article 4 – Capital requirements for credit risk, counterparty credit risk and market risk which are not already covered by specific financial resources as referred to in Articles 41 to 44 of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2012R0648_EN.16]]# Article 3 - Capital requirements for operational and legal risks

## 1.
A CCP shall calculate its capital requirements for operational — including legal — risk referred to in [[2013R0152_EN.1|Article 1]] using either the Basic Indicator Approach or Advanced Measurement Approaches as provided in Directive 2006/48/EC subject to the restrictions provided in paragraphs 2 to 7.
## 2.
A CCP may use the basic indicator approach in order to calculate its capital requirements for operational risk in accordance with Article 103 of Directive 2006/48/EC.
## 3.
A CCP shall have in place a well-documented assessment and management system for operational risk with clear responsibilities assigned for this system. It shall identify its exposures to operational risk and track relevant operational risk data, including material loss data. This system shall be subject to regular review carried out by an independent party possessing the necessary knowledge to carry out such review.
## 4.
A CCP operational risk assessment system shall be closely integrated into the risk management processes of the CCP. Its output shall be an integral part of the process of monitoring and controlling the CCP’s operational risk profile.
## 5.
A CCP shall implement a system of reporting to senior management that provides operational risk reports to relevant functions within the institutions. A CCP shall have in place procedures for taking appropriate action according to the information within the reports to management.
## 6.
A CCP may also apply to its competent authority for permission to use Advanced Measurement Approaches. The competent authority may grant the CCP the permission to use Advanced Measurement Approaches based on its own operational risk measurement systems in accordance with Article 105 of Directive 2006/48/EC.
## 7.
CCPs using the Advanced Measurement Approaches as specified in paragraph 6 for the calculation of their capital requirements for operational risk shall hold capital which is at all times more than or equal to 80 % of the capital required using the basic indicator approach according to paragraph 2.