---
surnom_texte_lvl1: EMIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2012R0648
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0648
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2012R0648_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2012R0648_FR.19]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02012R0648-20250117).
>
> [[2012R0648_EN.18|Article 18 – College]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2012R0648_EN.20|Article 20 – Withdrawal of authorisation]]
>



> [!check]- References LVL3
> **Guidelines**: [[esma70-151-3431_guidelines_on_written_agreements_between_members_of_ccp_colleges.pdf\|ESMA70-151-3431]] 
# Article 19 - Opinion of the college

## 1.
Where the college referred to in [[2012R0648_EN.18|Article 18]] is required to give an opinion pursuant to this Regulation, it shall reach a joint opinion determining whether the *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(1)|CCP]]* complies with the requirements laid down in this Regulation.

Without prejudice to [[2012R0648_EN.17#4|Article 17(4)]], third subparagraph, point (b), if no joint opinion is reached in accordance with the first subparagraph of this paragraph, the college referred to in [[2012R0648_EN.18|Article 18]] shall adopt a majority opinion within the same period.
## 1a.
Where the college gives an opinion pursuant to this Regulation, at the request of any member of the college and upon adoption by a majority of the college in accordance with paragraph 3 of this Article, that opinion may include, in addition to the determination of whether the *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(1)|CCP]]* complies with this Regulation, recommendations aimed at addressing shortcomings in the *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(1)|CCP]]*'s risk management and increasing its resilience.

Where the college may give an opinion, any central bank of issue, which is a member of the college pursuant to points (h) and (i) of [[2012R0648_EN.18#2|Article 18(2)]], may adopt recommendations relating to the currency it issues.
## 2.
ESMA shall facilitate the adoption of the joint opinion in accordance with its general coordination function under [[2010R1095_EN.31|Article 31 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010]].
## 3.
A majority opinion of the college shall be adopted on the basis of a simple majority of its members.

For colleges up to and including 12 members, a maximum of two college members belonging to the same Member State shall have a vote and each voting member, shall have one vote. For colleges with more than 12 members, a maximum of three members belonging to the same Member State shall have a vote and each voting member shall have one vote.

Where the ECB is a member of the college pursuant to points (c) and (h) of [[2012R0648_EN.18#2|Article 18(2)]], it shall have two votes.

The members of the college referred to in points (a), (ca) and (i) of [[2012R0648_EN.18#2|Article 18(2)]] shall have no voting rights on the opinions of the college.

—————