---
surnom_texte_lvl1: EMIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2012R0648
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0648
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2012R0648_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2012R0648_FR.9]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02012R0648-20250117).
>
> [[2012R0648_EN.8|Article 8 – Access to a trading venue]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2012R0648_EN.10|Article 10 – Non-financial counterparties]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 2 reference(s): [[2022R1860_EN.0]], [[2022R1855_EN.0]]# Article 9 - Reporting obligation

## 1.
Counterparties and *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(1)|CCPs]]* shall ensure that the details of any *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(5)|derivative contract]]* they have concluded and of any modification or termination of the contract are reported in accordance with paragraphs 1a to 1f of this Article to a *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(2)|trade repository]]* registered in accordance with [[2012R0648_EN.55|Article 55]] or recognised in accordance with [[2012R0648_EN.77|Article 77]]. The details shall be reported no later than the working day following the conclusion, modification or termination of the contract.

Financial counterparties, non-financial counterparties and *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(1)|CCPs]]* subject to the reporting obligation shall put in place appropriate procedures and arrangements to ensure the quality of the data they report in accordance with this Article.

Where a *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(9)|non-financial counterparty]]* that is part of a *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(16)|group]]* meets the conditions set out in [[2012R0648_EN.10#1|Article 10(1)]], second subparagraph, and benefits from the exemption set out in the fifth subparagraph of this paragraph, the Union *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(21)|parent undertaking]]* of that *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(9)|non-financial counterparty]]* shall report the net aggregate positions by *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(6)|class of derivatives]]* of that *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(9)|non-financial counterparty]]* to its *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(13)|competent authority]]* on a weekly basis. For a counterparty established in the Union, the *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(13)|competent authority]]* of the *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(21)|parent undertaking]]* shall share the information with ESMA and with the *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(13)|competent authority]]* of that counterparty.

The reporting obligation shall apply to *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(5)|derivative contracts]]* which:
### (a)
were entered into before 12 February 2014 and remain outstanding on that date;
### (b)
were entered into on or after 12 February 2014.

Notwithstanding [[2012R0648_EN.3|Article 3]], the reporting obligation shall not apply to *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(5)|derivative contracts]]* within the same *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(16)|group]]* where at least one of the counterparties is a *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(9)|non-financial counterparty]]* or would be qualified as a *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(9)|non-financial counterparty]]* if it were established in the Union, provided that:
### (a)
both counterparties are included in the same consolidation on a full basis;
### (b)
both counterparties are subject to appropriate centralised risk evaluation, measurement and *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(23)|control]]* procedures; and
### (c)
the *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(21)|parent undertaking]]* is not a *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(8)|financial counterparty]]*.

Counterparties shall notify their competent authorities of their intention to apply the exemption referred to in the third subparagraph. The exemption shall be valid unless the notified competent authorities do not agree upon fulfilment of the conditions referred to in the third subparagraph within three months of the date of notification.
## 1a.
Financial counterparties shall be solely responsible, and legally liable, for reporting on behalf of both counterparties, the details of *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(7)|OTC derivative contracts]]* concluded with a *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(9)|non-financial counterparty]]* that does not meet the conditions referred to in the second subparagraph of [[2012R0648_EN.10#1|Article 10(1)]], as well as for ensuring the correctness of the details reported.

To ensure that the *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(8)|financial counterparty]]* has all the data it needs to fulfil the reporting obligation, the *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(9)|non-financial counterparty]]* shall provide the *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(8)|financial counterparty]]* with the details of the *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(7)|OTC derivative contracts]]* concluded between them, which the *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(8)|financial counterparty]]* cannot be reasonably expected to possess. The *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(9)|non-financial counterparty]]* shall be responsible for ensuring that those details are correct.

Notwithstanding the first subparagraph, non-financial counterparties who have already invested in a reporting system may decide to report the details of their *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(7)|OTC derivative contracts]]* with financial counterparties to a *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(2)|trade repository]]*. In that case, the non-financial counterparties shall inform the financial counterparties with which they have concluded *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(7)|OTC derivative contracts]]* of their decision prior to reporting those details. In that situation, the non-financial counterparties shall be responsible, and legally liable, for reporting those details and for ensuring their correctness.

A *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(9)|non-financial counterparty]]* that does not meet the conditions referred to in the second subparagraph of [[2012R0648_EN.10#1|Article 10(1)]] and that concludes an *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(7)|OTC derivative contract]]* with an entity established in a third country shall not be required to report pursuant to this Article and shall not be legally liable for reporting or ensuring the correctness of the details of such *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(7)|OTC derivative contracts]]*, provided that:
### (a)
that third-country entity would be qualified as a *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(8)|financial counterparty]]* if it were established in the Union; and

—————
### (c)
the third-country *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(8)|financial counterparty]]* has reported such information pursuant to that third-country legal regime for reporting to a *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(2)|trade repository]]* that is subject to a legally binding and enforceable obligation to grant the entities referred to in [[2012R0648_EN.81#3|Article 81(3)]] direct and immediate access to the data.
## 1b.
The management company of a UCITS shall be responsible, and legally liable, for reporting the details of *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(7)|OTC derivative contracts]]* to which that UCITS is a counterparty, as well as for ensuring the correctness of the details reported.
## 1c.
The AIFM shall be responsible, and legally liable, for reporting the details of *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(7)|OTC derivative contracts]]* to which the relevant AIF is a counterparty, as well as for ensuring the correctness of the details reported.
## 1d.
The authorised entity that is responsible for managing and acting on behalf of an IORP that, in accordance with national law, does not have legal personality shall be responsible, and legally liable, for reporting the details of *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(7)|OTC derivative contracts]]* to which that IORP is a counterparty, as well as for ensuring the correctness of the details reported.
## 1e.
Counterparties and *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(1)|CCPs]]* that are required to report the details of *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(5)|derivative contracts]]* shall ensure that such details are reported correctly and without duplication, including where the reporting obligation has been delegated in accordance with paragraph 1f.
## 1f.
Counterparties and *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(1)|CCPs]]* that are subject to the reporting obligation referred to in paragraph 1 may delegate that reporting obligation.
## 2.
Counterparties shall keep a record of any *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(5)|derivative contract]]* they have concluded and any modification for at least five years following the termination of the contract.
## 3.
Where a *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(2)|trade repository]]* is not available to record the details of a *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(5)|derivative contract]]*, counterparties and *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(1)|CCPs]]* shall ensure that such details are reported to ESMA.

In this case ESMA shall ensure that all the relevant entities referred to in [[2012R0648_EN.81#3|Article 81(3)]] have access to all the details of *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(5)|derivative contracts]]* they need to fulfil their respective responsibilities and mandates.
## 4.
A counterparty or a *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(1)|CCP]]* that reports the details of a *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(5)|derivative contract]]* to a *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(2)|trade repository]]* or to ESMA, or an entity that reports such details on behalf of a counterparty or a *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(1)|CCP]]* shall not be considered in breach of any restriction on disclosure of information imposed by that contract or by any legislative, regulatory or administrative provision.

No liability resulting from that disclosure shall lie with the reporting entity or its directors or employees.
## 4a.
By 25 December 2025 ESMA, in cooperation with EBA and EIOPA, shall draft guidelines in accordance with [[2010R1095_EN.16|Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010]] to further specify the procedures and arrangements referred to in the paragraph 1, second subparagraph.
## 5.
In order to ensure consistent application of this Article, ESMA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards specifying the details and type of the reports referred to in paragraphs 1 and 3 for the different classes of *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(5)|derivatives]]*.

The reports referred to in paragraphs 1 and 3 shall specify at least:
### (a)
the parties to the *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(5)|derivative contract]]* and, where different, the beneficiary of the rights and obligations arising from it;
### (b)
the main characteristics of the *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(5)|derivative contracts]]*, including their type, underlying maturity, notional value, price, and settlement date.

ESMA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to the Commission by 30 September 2012.

Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in accordance with Articles [[2010R1095_EN.10|10]] to [[2010R1095_EN.14|14]] of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010.
## 6.
To ensure uniform conditions of application of paragraphs 1 and 3, ESMA shall, in close cooperation with the ESCB, develop draft implementing technical standards specifying:
### (a)
the data standards and formats for the information to be reported, which shall include at least the following:
#### (i)
global legal entity identifiers (LEIs);
#### (ii)
international securities identification numbers (ISINs);
#### (iii)
unique trade identifiers (UTIs);
### (b)
the methods and arrangements for reporting;
### (c)
the frequency of the reports;
### (d)
the date by which *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(5)|derivative contracts]]* are to be reported.
In developing those draft implementing technical standards, ESMA shall take into account international developments and standards agreed upon at Union or global level, and their consistency with the reporting requirements laid down in [[2015R2365_EN.4|Article 4 of Regulation (EU) 2365/2015]] and [[2014R0600_EN.26|Article 26 of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014]].

ESMA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards to the Commission by 18 June 2020.

Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the implementing technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in accordance with [[2010R1095_EN.15|Article 15 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010]].