---
surnom_texte_lvl1: EMIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2012R0648
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0648
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2012R0648_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2012R0648_FR.12]]. Open the [[CELEX_02012R0648-20250117_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02012R0648-20250117).
>
> [[2012R0648_EN.11|Article 11 – Risk-mitigation techniques for OTC derivative contracts not cleared by a CCP]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2012R0648_EN.13|Article 13 – Mechanism to avoid duplicative or conflicting rules with regard to OTC derivative contracts not cleared by a CCP]]
>



# Article 12 - Penalties

## 1.
Member States shall lay down the rules on penalties applicable to infringements of the rules under this Title and shall take all measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented. Those penalties shall include at least administrative fines. The penalties provided for shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
## 1a.
Without prejudice to paragraph 1 of this Article and to the right of Member States to provide for and impose criminal penalties, the *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(13)|competent authority]]* shall, by decision, impose administrative penalties or periodic penalty payments, or request competent judicial authorities to impose penalties or periodic penalty payments, on the entities subject to the reporting obligation pursuant to [[2012R0648_EN.9|Article 9]] where the details reported repeatedly contain systematic manifest errors.

The periodic penalty payment referred to in the first subparagraph shall not exceed a maximum of 1 % of the average daily turnover for the preceding business year which, in the case of an ongoing infringement, the entity shall be obliged to pay for every day that the infringement continues, until compliance with the obligation is established or restored. The periodic penalty payment may be imposed for a maximum period of six months from the date set out in the decision of the *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(13)|competent authority]]* requiring the termination of an infringement and imposing the periodic penalty payment.
## 2.
Member States shall ensure that the competent authorities responsible for the supervision of financial, and, where appropriate, non-financial counterparties disclose every penalty that has been imposed for infringements of Articles [[2012R0648_EN.4|4]], [[2012R0648_EN.5|5]] and [[2012R0648_EN.7|7]] to 11 to the public, unless such disclosure would seriously jeopardise the financial markets or cause disproportionate damage to the parties involved. Member States shall, at regular intervals, publish assessment reports on the effectiveness of the penalty rules being applied. Such disclosure and publication shall not contain personal data within the meaning of Article 2(a) of Directive 95/46/EC.

By 17 February 2013, the Member States shall notify the rules referred to in paragraph 1 to the Commission. They shall notify the Commission of any subsequent amendment thereto without delay.
## 3.
An infringement of the rules under this Title shall not affect the validity of an *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(7)|OTC derivative contract]]* or the possibility for the parties to enforce the provisions of an *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(7)|OTC derivative contract]]*. An infringement of the rules under this Title shall not give rise to any right to compensation from a party to an *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(7)|OTC derivative contract]]*.
## 4.
By way of derogation from paragraphs 1 and 1a, where the legal system of a Member State does not provide for administrative penalties, this Article may be applied in such a manner that the penalty is initiated by the *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(13)|competent authority]]* and imposed by judicial authorities, while ensuring that those legal remedies are effective and have an equivalent effect to the administrative penalties imposed by competent authorities. In any event, the penalties imposed shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. Those Member States shall notify to the Commission the provisions of their laws which they adopt pursuant to this paragraph by 24 December 2024 and, without delay, any subsequent amending law or amendment affecting them.
## 5.
ESMA, in cooperation with EBA, EIOPA and the ESRB, shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to specify what constitutes systematic manifest errors as referred to in the paragraph 1a.

ESMA shall submit the draft regulatory technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph to the Commission by 25 December 2025.

Power is delegated to the Commission to supplement this Regulation by adopting the regulatory technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph of this paragraph in accordance with Articles [[2010R1095_EN.10|10]] to [[2010R1095_EN.14|14]] of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010.