---
surnom_texte_lvl1: EMIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2012R0648
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0648
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2012R0648_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2012R0648_FR.56]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02012R0648-20250117).
>
> [[2012R0648_EN.55|Article 55 – Registration of a trade repository]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2012R0648_EN.57|Article 57 – Notification of and consultation with competent authorities prior to registration]]
>

# Article 56 - Application for registration

## 1.
For the purposes of [[2012R0648_EN.55#1|Article 55(1)]], a *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(2)|trade repository]]* shall submit either of the following to ESMA:
### (a)
an application for registration;
### (b)
an application for an extension of the registration where the *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(2)|trade repository]]* is already registered under Chapter III of Regulation (EU) 2015/2365.
## 2.
ESMA shall assess whether the application is complete within 20 working days of receipt of the application.

Where the application is not complete, ESMA shall set a deadline by which the *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(2)|trade repository]]* is to provide additional information.

After assessing an application as complete, ESMA shall notify the *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(2)|trade repository]]* accordingly.
## 3.
In order to ensure consistent application of this Article, ESMA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards specifying the details, other than for requirements related to ICT risk management, of the application for registration referred to in paragraph 1.
### (a)
the details of the application for the registration referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1;
### (b)
the details of the simplified application for the extension of the registration referred to in point (b) of paragraph 1.

ESMA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to the Commission by 18 June 2020.

Power is delegated to the Commission to supplement this Regulation by adopting the regulatory technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in accordance with Articles [[2010R1095_EN.10|10]] to [[2010R1095_EN.14|14]] of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010.
## 4.
To ensure uniform conditions of application of paragraph 1, ESMA shall develop draft implementing technical standards specifying the following:
### (a)
the format of the application for registration referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1;
### (b)
the format of the application for an extension of the registration referred to in point (b) of paragraph 1.

With regard to point (b) of the first subparagraph, ESMA shall develop a simplified format.

ESMA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards to the Commission by 18 June 2020.

Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the implementing technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in accordance with [[2010R1095_EN.15|Article 15 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010]].