---
surnom_texte_lvl1: EMIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2012R0648
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0648
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2012R0648_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2012R0648_FR.7 ter]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02012R0648-20250117).
>
> [[2012R0648_EN.7a|Article 7a – Active account]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2012R0648_EN.7c|Article 7c – Information on the provision of clearing services]]
>

# Article 7b - Monitoring of the active account obligation

## 1.
A *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(8)|financial counterparty]]* or a *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(9)|non-financial counterparty]]* that is subject to the obligation referred to in [[2012R0648_EN.7a|Article 7a]] shall calculate its activities and risk exposures in the categories of *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(5)|derivative contracts]]* referred to in paragraph 6 of that Article, and report every six months to its *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(13)|competent authority]]* the information necessary to assess compliance with that obligation. The *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(13)|competent authority]]* shall transmit that information to ESMA without undue delay.

The counterparties referred to in the first subparagraph of this paragraph shall use the information reported under [[2012R0648_EN.9|Article 9]] where relevant. The reporting shall also include a demonstration to the *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(13)|competent authority]]* that the legal documentation, IT connectivity and internal processes associated to the active accounts are in place.
## 2.
Financial counterparties and non-financial counterparties subject to the obligation referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article which hold, for the *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(5)|derivative contracts]]* referred to in [[2012R0648_EN.7a#6|Article 7a(6)]], accounts at a Tier 2 *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(1)|CCP]]* in addition to active accounts, shall also report every six months to their *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(13)|competent authority]]* information on the resources and systems that they have in place to ensure that the condition referred to in [[2012R0648_EN.7a#3|Article 7a(3)]], point (b), is met. The *[[2012R0648_EN.2#(13)|competent authority]]* shall transmit that information to ESMA without undue delay.
## 3.
The competent authorities referred to in the first paragraph of this Article shall ensure that the financial and non-financial counterparties subject to the obligation referred to in [[2012R0648_EN.7a|Article 7a]] take the appropriate steps to fulfil that obligation, including using their supervisory powers under their sectoral legislation, where appropriate, or imposing penalties as referred to in [[2012R0648_EN.12|Article 12]] where necessary. Competent authorities may require more frequent reporting in particular where, based on the information reported, insufficient steps have been taken to meet the requirements set out in this Regulation as regards active accounts.