---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MICA
surnom_texte_lvl2: MICA2545
texte: 2024R2545
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2023R1114
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2024R2545_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2024R2545_FR.6]]. Back to [[2023R1114_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2024/2545/oj).
>
> [[2024R2545_EN.5|Article 5 – Reply to a request for cooperation or exchange of information]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2024R2545_EN.7|Article 7 – Procedures for sending and processing a request for cooperation or exchange of information]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2023R1114_EN.95#11]]# Article 6 - Urgent requests for cooperation or exchange of information

## 1.
By way of derogation from Articles [[2024R2545_EN.4|4]] and [[2024R2545_EN.5|5]], the procedure in this Article shall apply to urgent requests for cooperation or exchange of information.
## 2.
The requesting authority shall specify, in a clear manner, the reasons for the urgency of the request, using the form set out in Annex I.
## 3.
By way of derogation from paragraph 2, the requesting authority may initially communicate the information orally where this is justified by the concrete circumstances that prompted the request. That oral submission shall be subsequently confirmed in writing and transmitted to the requested authority without undue delay using the form set out in Annex I, unless the requested authority agrees otherwise.
## 4.
Within 3 working days of receipt of an urgent request for cooperation or exchange of information, the requested authority shall send an acknowledgement of receipt in writing, by post or by electronic means, to the contact point designated pursuant to [[2024R2545_EN.2|Article 2]], unless otherwise specified in the request, using the form set out in Annex II.
## 5.
If the requested authority disagrees with the urgency of the request, it shall inform the requesting authority thereof together with the acknowledgement of receipt, detailing its reasons in a clear manner and using the form set out in Annex II. In such case, the request shall not be treated as an urgent request for cooperation or exchange of information.
## 6.
Where the requested authority refuses to act, in full or in part, upon an urgent request for cooperation or exchange of information, it shall inform the requesting authority as soon as possible of its decision in writing, by post or by electronic means, indicating which of the grounds for refusal set out in [[2023R1114_EN.95#2|Article 95(2) of Regulation (EU) 1114/2023]] it has relied upon.
## 7.
The requested authority shall provide a precise and comprehensive reply as soon as possible and no later than 10 working days from the receipt of the request. The reply shall be provided in writing, by post or by electronic means, using the form set out in Annex III, unless the requesting authority agrees otherwise.
## 8.
Where the requested authority is unable to provide the requesting authority with a precise and comprehensive reply within 10 working days, it shall, by way of derogation from paragraph 7, provide a partial reply within that deadline. In that case, the requested authority shall provide a precise and comprehensive reply within 20 working days from the date of the receipt of the original request. Where the requested authority is unable to gather all necessary information within that deadline, it shall provide to the requesting authority an explanation of the relevant constraints.