---
surnom_texte_lvl1: CSDR
surnom_texte_lvl2: Requirement CSD
texte: 2017R0392
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014R0909
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2017R0392_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2017R0392_FR.59]]. Back to [[2014R0909_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32017R0392).
>
> [[2017R0392_EN.58|Article 58 – Additional records]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2017R0392_EN.60|Article 60 – Reconciliation measures for corporate actions]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2014R0909_EN.37#4]]# Article 59 - General reconciliation measures

## 1.
A CSD shall perform the reconciliation measures referred to in [[2014R0909_EN.37#1|Article 37(1) of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014]] for each securities issue recorded in securities accounts centrally and not centrally maintained by the CSD.
The CSD shall compare the previous end-of-day balance with all the settlements processed during the day and the current end-of-day balance for each securities issue and securities account centrally or not centrally maintained by the CSD.

A CSD shall use double-entry accounting, according to which for each credit entry made on a securities account maintained by the CSD, centrally or not centrally, there is a corresponding debit entry on another securities account maintained by the same CSD.
## 2.
The audits referred to in [[2014R0909_EN.26#6|Article 26(6) of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014]] shall ensure that the records of a CSD related to securities issues are accurate, and that its reconciliation measures referred to in [[2014R0909_EN.37#1|Article 37(1) of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014]] and the measures concerning cooperation and exchanges of information with third parties related to reconciliation referred to in [[2014R0909_EN.37#2|Article 37(2) of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014]] are adequate.
## 3.
Where the reconciliation process concerns securities subject to immobilisation, a CSD shall put in place adequate measures to protect the physical securities from theft, fraud, and destruction. Those measures shall at least include the use of vaults whose design and location ensure a high level of protection against floods, earthquakes, fire and other disasters.
## 4.
Audits referred to in [[2014R0909_EN.26#6|Article 26(6) of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014]] with respect to the vaults, including physical inspections, shall be performed at least annually. The CSD shall share the results of those audit controls with the competent authority.