---
surnom_texte_lvl1: CSDR
surnom_texte_lvl2: Requirement CSD
texte: 2017R0392
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014R0909
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2017R0392_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2017R0392_FR.64]]. Back to [[2014R0909_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32017R0392).
>
> [[2017R0392_EN.63|Article 63 – Reconciliation measures for the common depository model]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2017R0392_EN.65|Article 65 – Problems related to reconciliation]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2014R0909_EN.37#4]]# Article 64 - Additional measures where other entities are involved in the reconciliation process

## 1.
A CSD shall review at least annually its cooperation and information exchange measures with other entities referred to in Articles [[2017R0392_EN.61|61]], [[2017R0392_EN.62|62]] and [[2017R0392_EN.63|63]]. This review may be conducted in parallel with a review of the CSD link arrangements. When required by the competent authority, the CSD shall implement other cooperation and information exchange measures in addition to those specified in this Regulation.
## 2.
When a CSD establishes links, they shall comply with the additional requirements provided in [[2017R0392_EN.86|Article 86]].
## 3.
A CSD shall require its participants to reconcile their records with the information received from that CSD on a daily basis.
## 4.
For the purposes of paragraph 3, the CSD shall provide participants on a daily basis the following information specified for each securities account and for each securities issue:
### (a)
the aggregated balance of a securities account at the beginning of the respective business day;
### (b)
the individual transfers of securities in or from a securities account during the respective business day;
### (c)
the aggregated balance of a securities account at the end of the respective business day.

The CSD shall provide the information referred to in the first subparagraph at the request of other holders of securities accounts maintained by the CSD, centrally or not centrally, where that information is necessary for the reconciliation of those holders' records with the records of the CSD.
## 5.
A CSD shall ensure that, upon its request, its participants, other holders of accounts in the CSD and the account operators provide the CSD with the information that the CSD deems necessary to ensure the integrity of the issue, in particular to solve any reconciliation problems.
For the purposes of this paragraph, ‘account operator’ shall mean an entity that is contracted by a CSD to record book entries into its securities accounts.