---
surnom_texte_lvl1: CSDR
surnom_texte_lvl2: Requirement CSD
texte: 2017R0392
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014R0909
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2017R0392_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2017R0392_FR.70]]. Back to [[2014R0909_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Open the [[CELEX_32017R0392_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32017R0392).
>
> [[2017R0392_EN.69|Article 69 – Operational risks that may be posed by other CSDs or market infrastructures]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2017R0392_EN.71|Article 71 – Integration of and compliance with the operational and enterprise risk-management system]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2014R0909_EN.45]]

# Article 70 - Operational risk-management system and framework

## 1.
As part of the policies, procedures and systems referred to in [[2017R0392_EN.47|Article 47]], a CSD shall have in place a well-documented framework for the management of operational risk with clearly assigned roles and responsibilities. A CSD shall have appropriate IT systems, policies, procedures and controls to identify, measure, monitor, report on and mitigate its operational risk.
## 2.
The management body and the senior management of a CSD shall determine, implement and monitor the risk-management framework for operational risks referred to in paragraph 1, identify all of the CSD's exposures to operational risk and track relevant operational risk data, including any cases where material data is lost.
## 3.
A CSD shall define and document clear operational reliability objectives, including operational performance objectives and committed service-level targets for its services and securities settlement systems. It shall have policies and procedures in place to achieve those objectives.
## 4.
A CSD shall ensure that its operational performance objectives and service-level targets referred to in paragraph 3 include both qualitative and quantitative measures of operational performance.
## 5.
A CSD shall regularly monitor and assess whether its established objectives and service-level targets are met.
## 6.
A CSD shall have rules and procedures in place that ensure that the performance of its securities system is reported regularly to senior management, members of the management body, relevant committees of the management body, user committees and the competent authority.
## 7.
A CSD shall periodically review its operational objectives to incorporate new technological and business developments.
## 8.
A CSD's operational risk-management framework shall include change-management and project-management processes to mitigate operational risk arising from modifications to operations, policies, procedures and controls put in place by the CSD.
## 9.
A CSD's operational risk-management framework shall include a comprehensive framework for physical security and information security to manage the risks that the CSD faces from attacks, including cyber-attacks, intrusions and natural disasters. That comprehensive framework shall enable the CSD to protect the information at its disposal from unauthorised access or disclosure, ensure data accuracy and integrity and maintain availability of the services provided by the CSD.
## 10.
A CSD shall put in place appropriate procedures concerning human resources to employ, train and retain qualified personnel, as well as mitigate the effects of personnel turnover or overreliance on key personnel.