---
surnom_texte_lvl1: CSDR
surnom_texte_lvl2: Requirement CSD
texte: 2017R0392
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014R0909
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2017R0392_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2017R0392_FR.65]]. Back to [[2014R0909_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32017R0392).
>
> [[2017R0392_EN.64|Article 64 – Additional measures where other entities are involved in the reconciliation process]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2017R0392_EN.66|Article 66 – General operational risks and their assessment]]
>

> [!tip]- References LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2014R0909_EN.37#4]]

# Article 65 - Problems related to reconciliation

## 1.
A CSD shall analyse any mismatches and inconsistencies resulting from the reconciliation process and endeavour to solve them before the beginning of settlement on the following business day.
## 2.
Where the reconciliation process reveals an undue creation or deletion of securities, and the CSD fails to solve this problem by the end of the following business day, the CSD shall suspend the securities issue for settlement until the undue creation or deletion of securities has been remedied.
## 3.
In the event of suspension of the settlement, the CSD shall inform without undue delay its participants, competent authority, relevant authorities and all other entities involved in the reconciliation process referred to in Articles [[2017R0392_EN.61|61]], [[2017R0392_EN.62|62]] and [[2017R0392_EN.63|63]].
## 4.
The CSD shall take without undue delay all the necessary measures to remedy the undue creation or deletion of securities and shall inform its competent authority and relevant authorities with regard to the measures taken.
## 5.
The CSD shall inform without undue delay its participants, competent authority, relevant authorities and the other entities involved in the reconciliation process that are referred to in Articles [[2017R0392_EN.61|61]], [[2017R0392_EN.62|62]] and [[2017R0392_EN.63|63]], when the undue creation or deletion of securities has been remedied.
## 6.
Where a securities issue is suspended from settlement, the settlement discipline measures set out in [[2014R0909_EN.7|Article 7 of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014]] shall not apply in relation to that securities issue for the period of suspension.
## 7.
The CSD shall resume settlement as soon as the undue creation or deletion of securities has been remedied.
## 8.
Where the number of instances of undue creation or deletion of securities referred to in paragraph 2 is higher than five per month, the CSD shall send within one month the competent authority and the relevant authorities a proposed plan of measures for mitigating the occurrence of similar instances. The CSD shall update the plan and shall provide a report on its implementation to the competent authority and the relevant authorities on a monthly basis, until the number of instances referred to in paragraph 2 falls below five per month.