---
surnom_texte_lvl1: EMIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: Reporting Standard
texte: 2022R1860
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0648
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2022R1860_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2022R1860_FR.4]]. Back to [[2012R0648_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02022R1860-20221007).
>
> [[2022R1860_EN.3|Article 3 – Identification of counterparties and other entities]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2022R1860_EN.5|Article 5 – Collateralisation]]
>

# Article 4 - Direction of the derivative

## 1.
The counterparty side to the derivative contract referred to in fields 17 to 19 in Table 1 of the Annex shall be determined at the time of the conclusion of the derivative

in accordance with paragraphs 2 to 13

.
## 2.
In the case of options and swaptions, the counterparty that holds the right to exercise the option shall be identified as the buyer and the counterparty that sells the option and receives a premium shall be identified as the seller.
## 3.
In the case of forwards related to currencies, counterparty 1 shall be identified as either the payer or the receiver for leg 1, and the opposite for leg 2. Counterparty 2 shall populate fields 18 and 19 in Table 1 with the opposite values to counterparty 1.
## 4.
In the case of swaps related to currencies where multiple exchanges of currencies take place, each counterparty for both legs of the trade shall be identified as either the payer or the receiver of the leg based on the exchange of currencies that takes place closest to the expiration date.
## 5.
In the case of forwards other than forwards relating to currencies and in the case of futures, the counterparty buying the instrument shall be identified as the buyer and the counterparty selling the instrument shall be identified as the seller.
## 6.
In the case of financial contracts for difference and spreadbets the counterparty which goes short on the contract shall be identified as the seller, and the counterparty going long on the contract shall be identified as the buyer.
## 7.
In the case of swaps related to dividends, the counterparty receiving the equivalent dividend amount payments shall be identified as the buyer and the counterparty paying that equivalent dividend amount payments shall be identified as the seller.
## 8.
In the case of swaps related to securities other than swaps related to dividends, counterparty 1 shall be identified as either the payer or the receiver for leg 1, and the opposite for leg 2. Counterparty 2 shall populate fields 18 and 19 in Table 1 with the opposite values to counterparty 1.
## 9.
In the case of swaps related to interest rates or inflation indices, including the cross-currency swaps, counterparty 1 shall be identified as either the payer or the receiver for leg 1, and the opposite for leg 2. Counterparty 2 shall populate fields 18 and 19 in Table 1 with the opposite values to counterparty 1.
## 10.
With the exception of options and swaptions, in the case of derivative instruments for the transfer of credit risk, the counterparty buying the protection shall be identified as the buyer and the counterparty selling the protection shall be identified as the seller.
## 11.
In the case of swaps related to commodities, counterparty 1 shall be identified as either the payer or the receiver for leg 1, and the opposite for leg 2. Counterparty 2 shall populate fields 18 and 19 in Table 1 with the opposite values to counterparty 1.
## 12.
In the case of forward-rate agreements, counterparty 1 shall be identified as either the payer or the receiver for leg 1, and the opposite for leg 2. Counterparty 2 shall populate fields 18 and 19 in Table 1 with the opposite values to counterparty 1.
## 13.
In the case of derivatives related to variance, volatility and correlation, the counterparty profiting from an increase in the price of the underlying shall be identified as the buyer and the counterparty profiting from a decrease in the price of the underlying shall be identified as the seller.