---
surnom_texte_lvl1: BMR
surnom_texte_lvl2: Application information
texte: 2018R1646
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2016R1011
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2018R1646_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2018R1646_FR.2]]. Back to [[2016R1011_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32018R1646).
>
> [[2018R1646_EN.1|Article 1 – General requirements]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2018R1646_EN.3|Article 3 – Specific information concerning policies and procedures]]
>

# Article 2 - Information to be provided for types of benchmarks

## 1.
An applicant may submit for any non-significant benchmark that it provides the information required by paragraph 6 of Annex I or, where applicable, paragraph 6 of Annex II in the form of a summary.
## 2.
Non-supervised entities providing critical and significant benchmarks shall submit the information listed in Annex I.
## 3.
Supervised entities providing only non-critical benchmarks shall submit the information listed in the first column of Annex II.
## 4.
An applicant providing only non-significant benchmarks shall submit the information listed in the second column of Annex II.
## 5.
Without prejudice to paragraphs 1 to 4, an applicant providing only regulated-data benchmarks shall not submit the information listed in points 5(c), 6(a)(iii) and 6(a)(iv) of Annex I and Annex II.
## 6.
An applicant providing only interest rate benchmarks shall submit the information listed in the Annexes of this Regulation and shall specify how the specific requirements set out in Annex I of Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 are implemented where the provisions in Annex I of Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 apply in addition to, or as a substitute for, the requirements in Title II of Regulation (EU) 2016/1011, pursuant to Article 18 of that Regulation.
## 7.
An applicant providing only commodity benchmarks shall provide the information listed in Annex I of this Regulation if it is a non-supervised entity or if it provides a critical benchmark. If it is a supervised entity and none of the benchmarks it provides is a critical benchmark, it shall provide the information listed in the first column of Annex II. The applicant shall specify how the requirements set out in Annex II of Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 are implemented for any commodity benchmark subject to Annex II instead of Title II of Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 pursuant to [[2016R1011_EN.19|Article 19 of Regulation (EU) 1011/2016]].