---
surnom_texte_lvl1: SSR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2012R0236
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0236
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2012R0236_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2012R0236_FR.17]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02012R0236-20240116).
>
> [[2012R0236_EN.16|Article 16 – Exemption where the principal trading venue is in a third country]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2012R0236_EN.18|Article 18 – Notification and disclosure in exceptional circumstances]]
>

# Article 17 - Exemption for market making activities and primary market operations

## 1.
Articles [[2012R0236_EN.5|5]], [[2012R0236_EN.6|6]], [[2012R0236_EN.7|7]], [[2012R0236_EN.12|12]], [[2012R0236_EN.13|13]] and [[2012R0236_EN.14|14]] shall not apply to transactions performed due to market making activities.
## 2.
The Commission may, in accordance with the procedure referred to in [[2012R0236_EN.44#2|Article 44(2)]], adopt decisions determining that the legal and supervisory framework of a third country ensures that a market authorised in that third country complies with legally binding requirements which are, for the purpose of the application of the exemption set out in paragraph 1, equivalent to the requirements under Title III of Directive 2004/39/EC, under Directive 2003/6/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2003 on insider dealing and market manipulation (market abuse) and under Directive 2004/109/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 December 2004 on the harmonisation of transparency requirements in relation to information about issuers whose securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market (
## 6
), and which are subject to effective supervision and enforcement in that third country.

The legal and supervisory framework of a third country may be considered equivalent where that third country’s:
### (a)
markets are subject to authorisation and to effective supervision and enforcement on an ongoing basis;
### (b)
markets have clear and transparent rules regarding admission of securities to trading so that such securities are capable of being traded in a fair, orderly and efficient manner, and are freely negotiable;
### (c)
security issuers are subject to periodic and ongoing information requirements ensuring a high level of investor protection; and
### (d)
market transparency and integrity are ensured by preventing market abuse in the form of insider dealing and market manipulation.
## 3.
Articles [[2012R0236_EN.7|7]], [[2012R0236_EN.13|13]] and [[2012R0236_EN.14|14]] shall not apply to the activities of a natural or legal person where, acting as an authorised primary dealer pursuant to an agreement with a sovereign issuer, it is dealing as principal in a financial instrument in relation to primary or secondary market operations relating to the sovereign debt.
## 4.
Articles [[2012R0236_EN.5|5]], [[2012R0236_EN.6|6]], [[2012R0236_EN.12|12]], [[2012R0236_EN.13|13]] and [[2012R0236_EN.14|14]] of this Regulation shall not apply to a natural or legal person where it enters into a short sale of a security or has a net short position in relation to the carrying out of a stabilisation under Chapter III of Commission Regulation (EC) No 2273/2003 of 22 December 2003 implementing Directive 2003/6/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards exemptions for buy-back programmes and stabilisation of financial instruments.
## 5.
The exemption referred to in paragraph 1 shall apply only where the natural or legal person concerned has notified the competent authority of its home Member State in writing that it intends to make use of the exemption. The notification shall be made not less than 30 calendar days before the natural or legal person first intends to use the exemption.
## 6.
The exemption referred to in paragraph 3 shall apply only where the authorised primary dealer has notified the relevant competent authority in relation to the sovereign debt concerned in writing that it intends to make use of the exemption. The notification shall be made not less than 30 calendar days before the natural or legal person acting as authorised primary dealer first intends to use the exemption.
## 7.
The competent authority referred to in paragraphs 5 and 6 may prohibit the use of the exemption if it considers that the natural or legal person does not satisfy the conditions of the exemption. Any prohibition shall be imposed within the 30 calendar day period referred to in paragraph 5 or 6 or subsequently if the competent authority becomes aware that there have been changes in the circumstances of the natural or legal person so that it no longer satisfies the conditions of the exemption.
## 8.
A third-country entity that is not authorised in the Union shall send the notification referred to in paragraphs 5 and 6 to the competent authority of the main trading venue in the Union in which it trades.
## 9.
A natural or legal person who has given a notification under paragraph 5 shall as soon as possible notify in writing the competent authority of its home Member State where there are any changes affecting that person’s eligibility to use the exemption, or if it no longer wishes to use the exemption.
## 10.
A natural or legal person who has given a notification under paragraph 6 shall as soon as possible notify in writing the relevant competent authority in relation to sovereign debt concerned where there are any changes affecting that person’s eligibility to use the exemption, or if it no longer wishes to use the exemption.
## 11.
The competent authority of the home Member State may request information, in writing, from a natural or legal person operating under the exemptions set out in paragraph 1, 3 or 4 about short positions held or activities conducted under the exemption. The natural or legal person shall provide the information not later than 4 calendar days after the request is made.
## 12.
A competent authority shall notify ESMA within 2 weeks of notification in accordance with paragraph 5 or 9 of any market makers and in accordance with paragraph 6 or 10 of any authorised primary dealers who are making use of the exemption and of any market makers and authorised primary dealers who are no longer making use of the exemption.
## 13.
ESMA shall publish and keep up to date on its website a list of market makers and authorised primary dealers who are using the exemption.
## 14.
A notification under this Article may be made by a person to a competent authority and by a competent authority to ESMA at any time within 60 calendar days before 1 November 2012.