---
surnom_texte_lvl1: SSR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2012R0236
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0236
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2012R0236_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2012R0236_FR.28]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02012R0236-20240116).
>
> [[2012R0236_EN.27|Article 27 – Coordination by ESMA]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2012R0236_EN.29|Article 29 – ESMA’s powers in emergency situations relating to sovereign debt]]
>



# Article 28 - ESMA intervention powers in exceptional circumstances

## 1.
In accordance with [[2010R1095_EN.9#5|Article 9(5) of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010]], ESMA shall, subject to paragraph 2 of this Article, either:
### (a)
require natural or legal persons who have net short positions in relation to a specific financial instrument or class of financial instruments to notify a competent authority or to disclose to the public details of any such position; or
### (b)
prohibit or impose conditions on, the entry by natural or legal persons into a short sale or a transaction which creates, or relates to, a financial instrument other than financial instruments referred to in point (c) of [[2012R0236_EN.1#1|Article 1(1)]] where the effect or one of the effects of the transaction is to confer a financial advantage on such person in the event of a decrease in the price or value of another financial instrument.

A measure may apply in particular circumstances, or be subject to exceptions specified by ESMA. Exceptions may in particular be specified to apply to market-making activities and primary market activities.
## 2.
ESMA shall take a decision under paragraph 1 only if:
### (a)
the measures listed in points (a) and (b) of paragraph 1 address a threat to the orderly functioning and integrity of financial markets or to the stability of the whole or part of the financial system in the Union and there are cross-border implications; and
### (b)
no competent authority has taken measures to address the threat or one or more of the competent authorities have taken measures that do not adequately address the threat.
## 3.
Where taking measures referred to in paragraph 1 ESMA shall take into account the extent to which the measure:
### (a)
significantly addresses the threat to the orderly functioning and integrity of financial markets or to the stability of the whole or part of the financial system in the Union or significantly improves the ability of the competent authorities to monitor the threat;
### (b)
does not create a risk of regulatory arbitrage;
### (c)
does not have a detrimental effect on the efficiency of financial markets, including by reducing liquidity in those markets or creating uncertainty for market participants, that is disproportionate to the benefits of the measure.

Where one or more competent authorities have taken a measure under [[2012R0236_EN.18|Article 18]], 19, 20 or 21, ESMA may take any of the measures referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article without issuing the opinion provided for in [[2012R0236_EN.27|Article 27]].
## 4.
Before deciding to impose or renew any measure referred to in paragraph 1, ESMA shall consult the ESRB and, where appropriate, other relevant authorities.
## 5.
Before deciding to impose or renew any measure referred to in paragraph 1, ESMA shall notify the competent authorities concerned of the measure it proposes to take. The notification shall include details of the proposed measures, the class of financial instruments and transactions to which they will apply, the evidence supporting the reasons for those measures and when the measures are intended to take effect.
## 6.
The notification shall be made not less than 24 hours before the measure is to take effect or to be renewed. In exceptional circumstances, ESMA may make the notification less than 24 hours before the measure is intended to take effect where it is not possible to give 24 hours’ notice.
## 7.
ESMA shall publish on its website notice of any decision to impose or renew any measure referred to in paragraph 1. The notice shall at least specify:
### (a)
the measures imposed including the instruments and classes of transactions to which they apply, and their duration; and
### (b)
the reasons why ESMA is of the opinion that it is necessary to impose the measures including the evidence supporting those reasons.
## 8.
After deciding to impose or renew any measure referred to in paragraph 1, ESMA shall immediately notify the competent authorities of the measures taken.
## 9.
A measure shall take effect when the notice is published on the ESMA website or at a time specified in the notice that is after its publication and shall only apply in relation to a transaction entered into after the measure takes effect.
## 10.
ESMA shall review the measures referred to in paragraph 1 at appropriate intervals and at least every 3 months. If the measure is not renewed by the end of such a 3-month period it shall automatically expire. Paragraphs 2 to 9 shall apply to a renewal of measures.
## 11.
A measure adopted by ESMA under this Article shall prevail over any previous measure taken by a competent authority under Section 1.