---
surnom_texte_lvl1: SDR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2007L0036
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2007L0036
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2007L0036_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2007L0036_FR.7]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02007L0036-20240109).
>
> [[2007L0036_EN.6|Article 6 – Right to put items on the agenda of the general meeting and to table draft resolutions]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2007L0036_EN.8|Article 8 – Participation in the general meeting by electronic means]]
>

# Article 7 - Requirements for participation and voting in the general meeting

## 1.
Member States shall ensure:
### (a)
that the rights of a shareholder to participate in a general meeting and to vote in respect of any of his shares are not subject to any requirement that his shares be deposited with, or transferred to, or registered in the name of, another natural or legal person before the general meeting; and
### (b)
that the rights of a shareholder to sell or otherwise transfer his shares during the period between the record date, as defined in paragraph 2, and the general meeting to which it applies are not subject to any restriction to which they are not subject at other times.
## 2.
Member States shall provide that the rights of a shareholder to participate in a general meeting and to vote in respect of his shares shall be determined with respect to the shares held by that shareholder on a specified date prior to the general meeting (the record date).

Member States need not apply the first subparagraph to companies that are able to identify the names and addresses of their shareholders from a current register of shareholders on the day of the general meeting.
## 3.
Each Member State shall ensure that a single record date applies to all companies. However, a Member State may set one record date for companies which have issued bearer shares and another record date for companies which have issued registered shares, provided that a single record date applies to each company which has issued both types of shares. The record date shall not lie more than 30 days before the date of the general meeting to which it applies. In implementing this provision and [[2007L0036_EN.5#1|Article 5(1)]], each Member State shall ensure that at least eight days elapse between the latest permissible date for the convocation of the general meeting and the record date. In calculating that number of days those two dates shall not be included. In the circumstances described in [[2007L0036_EN.5#1|Article 5(1)]], third subparagraph, however, a Member State may require that at least six days elapse between the latest permissible date for the second or subsequent convocation of the general meeting and the record date. In calculating that number of days those two dates shall not be included.
## 4.
Proof of qualification as a shareholder may be made subject only to such requirements as are necessary to ensure the identification of shareholders and only to the extent that they are proportionate to achieving that objective.