---
surnom_texte_lvl1: SDR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2007L0036
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2007L0036
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2007L0036_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2007L0036_FR.10]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02007L0036-20240109).
>
> [[2007L0036_EN.9c|Article 9c – Transparency and approval of related party transactions]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2007L0036_EN.11|Article 11 – Formalities for proxy holder appointment and notification]]
>

# Article 10 - Proxy voting

## 1.
Every shareholder shall have the right to appoint any other natural or legal person as a proxy holder to attend and vote at a general meeting in his name. The proxy holder shall enjoy the same rights to speak and ask questions in the general meeting as those to which the shareholder thus represented would be entitled.

Apart from the requirement that the proxy holder possess legal capacity, Member States shall abolish any legal rule which restricts, or allows companies to restrict, the eligibility of persons to be appointed as proxy holders.
## 2.
Member States may limit the appointment of a proxy holder to a single meeting, or to such meetings as may be held during a specified period.

Without prejudice to [[2007L0036_EN.13#5|Article 13(5)]], Member States may limit the number of persons whom a shareholder may appoint as proxy holders in relation to any one general meeting. However, if a shareholder has shares of a company held in more than one securities account, such limitation shall not prevent the shareholder from appointing a separate proxy holder as regards shares held in each securities account in relation to any one general meeting. This does not affect rules prescribed by the applicable law that prohibit the casting of votes differently in respect of shares held by one and the same shareholder.
## 3.
Apart from the limitations expressly permitted in paragraphs 1 and 2, Member States shall not restrict or allow companies to restrict the exercise of shareholder rights through proxy holders for any purpose other than to address potential conflicts of interest between the proxy holder and the shareholder, in whose interest the proxy holder is bound to act, and in doing so Member States shall not impose any requirements other than the following:
### (a)
Member States may prescribe that the proxy holder disclose certain specified facts which may be relevant for the shareholders in assessing any risk that the proxy holder might pursue any interest other than the interest of the shareholder;
### (b)
Member States may restrict or exclude the exercise of shareholder rights through proxy holders without specific voting instructions for each resolution in respect of which the proxy holder is to vote on behalf of the shareholder;
### (c)
Member States may restrict or exclude the transfer of the proxy to another person, but this shall not prevent a proxy holder who is a legal person from exercising the powers conferred upon it through any member of its administrative or management body or any of its employees.

A conflict of interest within the meaning of this paragraph may in particular arise where the proxy holder:
#### (i)
is a controlling shareholder of the company, or is another entity controlled by such shareholder;
#### (ii)
is a member of the administrative, management or supervisory body of the company, or of a controlling shareholder or controlled entity referred to in point (i);
#### (iii)
is an employee or an auditor of the company, or of a controlling shareholder or controlled entity referred to in (i);
#### (iv)
has a family relationship with a natural person referred to in points (i) to (iii).
## 4.
The proxy holder shall cast votes in accordance with the instructions issued by the appointing shareholder.

Member States may require proxy holders to keep a record of the voting instructions for a defined minimum period and to confirm on request that the voting instructions have been carried out.
## 5.
A person acting as a proxy holder may hold a proxy from more than one shareholder without limitation as to the number of shareholders so represented. Where a proxy holder holds proxies from several shareholders, the applicable law shall enable him to cast votes for a certain shareholder differently from votes cast for another shareholder.