---
surnom_texte_lvl1: SDR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2007L0036
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2007L0036
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2007L0036_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2007L0036_FR.3 octies]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02007L0036-20240109).
>
> [[2007L0036_EN.3f|Article 3f – Information on implementation]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2007L0036_EN.3h|Article 3h – Investment strategy of institutional investors and arrangements with asset managers]]
>

# Article 3g - Engagement policy

## 1.
Member States shall ensure that institutional investors and asset managers either comply with the requirements set out in points (a) and (b) or publicly disclose a clear and reasoned explanation why they have chosen not to comply with one or more of those requirements.
### (a)
Institutional investors and asset managers shall develop and publicly disclose an engagement policy that describes how they integrate shareholder engagement in their investment strategy. The policy shall describe how they monitor investee companies on relevant matters, including strategy, financial and non-financial performance and risk, capital structure, social and environmental impact and corporate governance, conduct dialogues with investee companies, exercise voting rights and other rights attached to shares, cooperate with other shareholders, communicate with relevant stakeholders of the investee companies and manage actual and potential conflicts of interests in relation to their engagement.
### (b)
Institutional investors and asset managers shall, on an annual basis, publicly disclose how their engagement policy has been implemented, including a general description of voting behaviour, an explanation of the most significant votes and the use of the services of proxy advisors. They shall publicly disclose how they have cast votes in the general meetings of companies in which they hold shares. Such disclosure may exclude votes that are insignificant due to the subject matter of the vote or the size of the holding in the company.
## 2.
The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be available free of charge on the institutional investor’s or asset manager’s website. Member States may provide for the information to be published, free of charge, by other means that are easily accessible online.

Where an asset manager implements the engagement policy, including voting, on behalf of an institutional investor, the institutional investor shall make a reference as to where such voting information has been published by the asset manager.
## 3.
Conflicts of interests rules applicable to institutional investors and asset managers, including [[2011L0061_EN.14|Article 14 of Directive 2011/61/EU]], point (b) of [[2007L0036_EN.12#1|Article 12(1)]] and point (d) of 14(1) of Directive 2009/65/EC and the relevant implementing rules, and [[2014L0065_EN.23|Article 23 of Directive 2014/65/EU]] shall also apply with regard to engagement activities.