---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MIF2
surnom_texte_lvl2: RTS24 Data orders
texte: 2017R0580
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014L0065
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2017R0580_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2017R0580_FR.7]]. Back to [[2014L0065_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32017R0580).
>
> [[2017R0580_EN.6|Article 6 – Priority and sequence numbers]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2017R0580_EN.8|Article 8 – Events affecting the orders in financial instruments]]
>

# Article 7 - Identification codes for orders in financial instruments

## 1.
Operators of trading venues shall maintain an individual identification code for each order as specified in field 20 of Table 2 of the Annex. The identification code shall be unique per order book, per trading day and per financial instrument. It shall apply from the receipt of the order by the operator of the trading venue until the removal of the order from the order book. The identification code shall also apply to rejected orders irrespective of the ground for their rejection.
## 2.
The operator of the trading venue shall maintain the relevant details of strategy orders with implied functionality (SOIF) that are disseminated to the public as specified in the Annex. Field 33 of Table 2 of the Annex shall include a statement that the order is an implicit order.
Upon execution of a SOIF, its details shall be maintained by the operator of the trading venue as specified in the Annex.

Upon execution of a SOIF, a strategy linked order identification code shall be indicated using the same identification code for all orders connected to the particular strategy. The strategy linked order identification code shall be as specified in field 46 of Table 2 of the Annex.
## 3.
Orders submitted to a trading venue allowing for a routing strategy shall be identified by that trading venue as ‘routed’ as specified in field 33 of Table 2 of the Annex when they are routed to another trading venue. Orders submitted to a trading venue allowing for a routing strategy shall retain the same identification code for their lifetime, regardless of whether any remaining quantity is re-posted on the order book of entry.