---
surnom_texte_lvl1: DORA
surnom_texte_lvl2: ICT risk mgt
texte: 2024R1774
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2022R2554
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2024R1774_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2024R1774_FR.7]]. Back to [[2022R2554_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Open the [[OJ_L_202401774_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2024/1774/oj).
>
> [[2024R1774_EN.6|Article 6 – Encryption and cryptographic controls]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2024R1774_EN.8|Article 8 – Policies and procedures for ICT operations]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2022R2554_EN.15]]

# Article 7 - Cryptographic key management

## 1.
Financial entities shall include in the cryptographic key management policy referred to in [[2024R1774_EN.6#2|Article 6(2)]], point (d), requirements for managing cryptographic keys through their whole lifecycle, including generating, renewing, storing, backing up, archiving, retrieving, transmitting, retiring, revoking, and destroying those cryptographic keys.
## 2.
Financial entities shall identify and implement controls to protect cryptographic keys through their whole lifecycle against loss, unauthorised access, disclosure, and modification. Financial entities shall design those controls on the basis of the results of the approved data classification and the ICT risk assessment.
## 3.
Financial entities shall develop and implement methods to replace the cryptographic keys in the case of loss, or where those keys are compromised or damaged.
## 4.
Financial entities shall create and maintain a register for all certificates and certificate-storing devices for at least ICT assets supporting critical or important functions. Financial entities shall keep that register up to date.
## 5.
Financial entities shall ensure the prompt renewal of certificates in advance of their expiration.