---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MICA
surnom_texte_lvl2: MICA1140
texte: 2025R1140
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2023R1114
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2025R1140_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2025R1140_FR.9]]. Back to [[2023R1114_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Open the [[OJ_L_202501140_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2025/1140/oj).
>
> [[2025R1140_EN.8|Article 8 – Identification of person or computer algorithm within the crypto-asset service provider making the investment decision]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2025R1140_EN.10|Article 10 – Identification of a person or computer algorithm determining conditions for the execution of a transaction]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2023R1114_EN.68#10]]

# Article 9 - Designation to identify natural persons

## 1.
A client who is a natural person shall be identified in the crypto-asset service provider’s records using the designation resulting from the concatenation of the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 (2-letter country code) of the client’s nationality, followed by the national client identifier specified in Annex II to Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/590, based on the client’s nationality.
## 2.
The national client identifier referred to in paragraph 1 shall be assigned in accordance with the priority levels provided for in Annex II of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/590 using the highest priority identifier that a person has, regardless of whether that identifier is already known to the crypto-asset service provider.
## 3.
For the purposes of identifying a natural person, if the person is a national of more than one European Economic Area (EEA) country, the country code of the first nationality when sorted alphabetically by its ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code and the identifier of that nationality assigned in accordance with paragraph 2 shall be used.
## 4.
Where a natural person has a non-EEA nationality, the highest priority identifier in accordance with the field referring to ‘all other countries’ provided in Annex II of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/590 shall be used. Where a natural person has EEA and non-EEA nationality, the country code of the EEA nationality and the highest priority identifier of that nationality assigned in accordance with paragraph 2 shall be used.
## 5.
Where a client is a resident of a country other than the one of its nationality, crypto-asset service providers shall also identify that person based on the country of residence of the person as prescribed in Field 41 of Table 2 in the Annex.
## 6.
Where the identifier assigned in accordance with paragraph 2 is based on CONCAT, the client shall be identified by the crypto-asset service provider using the concatenation of the following elements in the following order:
### (a)
the date of birth of the person in the format YYYYMMDD;
### (b)
the five first characters of the first name of the person;
### (c)
the five first characters of the surname of the person.
## 7.
For the purposes of paragraph 6, prefixes to names shall be excluded and first names and surnames shorter than five characters shall be appended by ‘#’ so as to ensure that references to names and surnames in accordance with paragraph 6 contain five characters. All characters shall be in upper case. No apostrophes, accents, hyphens, punctuation marks or spaces shall be used.