---
surnom_texte_lvl1: UCITS
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2009L0065
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2009L0065
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2009L0065_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2009L0065_FR.21]]. Open the [[CELEX_02009L0065-20250117_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02009L0065-20250117).
>
> [[2009L0065_EN.20|Article 20 – 1.]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2009L0065_EN.22|Article 22 – 1.]]
>



# Article 21 - 1.


A management company’s host Member State may, for statistical purposes, require all management companies with branches within its territory to report periodically on their activities pursued in that host Member State to the competent authorities of that host Member State.
## 2.
A management company’s host Member State may require management companies pursuing business within its territory through the establishment of a branch or under the freedom to provide services, to provide the information necessary for the monitoring of their compliance with the rules under the responsibility of the management company’s host Member State that apply to them.

Those requirements shall not be more stringent than those which the same Member State imposes on management companies authorised in that Member State for the monitoring of their compliance with the same standards.

Management companies shall ensure that the procedures and arrangements referred to in [[2009L0065_EN.15|Article 15]] enable the competent authorities of the UCITS home Member State to obtain directly from the management company the information referred to in this paragraph.
## 3.
Where the competent authorities of a management company’s host Member State ascertain that a management company that has a branch or provides services within its territory is in breach of one of the rules under their responsibility, those authorities shall require the management company concerned to put an end to that breach and inform the competent authorities of the management company’s home Member State thereof.
## 4.
If the management company concerned refuses to provide the management company’s host Member State with information falling under its responsibility, or fails to take the necessary steps to put an end to the breach referred to in paragraph 3, the competent authorities of the management company’s host Member State shall inform the competent authorities of the management company’s home Member State accordingly. The competent authorities of the management company’s home Member State shall, at the earliest opportunity, take all appropriate measures to ensure that the management company concerned provides the information requested by the management company’s host Member State pursuant to paragraph 2 or puts an end to the breach. The nature of those measures shall be communicated to the competent authorities of the management company’s host Member State.
## 5.
If, despite the measures taken by the competent authorities of the management company's home Member State or because such measures prove to be inadequate or are not available in the Member State in question, the management company continues to refuse to provide the information requested by the management company's host Member State pursuant to paragraph 2, or persists in breaching the legal or regulatory provisions, referred to in the same paragraph, in force in the management company's host Member State, the competent authorities of the management company's host Member State may take either of the following actions:
### (a)
after informing the competent authorities of the management company's home Member State, take appropriate measures, including under Articles [[2009L0065_EN.98|98]] and [[2009L0065_EN.99|99]], to prevent or penalise further irregularities and, in so far as necessary, to prevent that management company from initiating any further transaction within its territory. Member States shall ensure that within their territories it is possible to serve the legal documents necessary for those measures on management companies. Where the service provided within the management company's host Member State is the management of a UCITS, the management company's host Member State may require the management company to cease managing that UCITS; or
### (b)
where they consider that the competent authority of the management company's home Member State has not acted adequately, refer the matter to ESMA, which may act in accordance with the powers conferred on it under [[2010R1095_EN.19|Article 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010]].
## 6.
Any measure adopted pursuant to paragraphs 4 or 5 involving measures or penalties shall be properly justified and communicated to the management company concerned. Every such measure shall be subject to the right to apply to the courts in the Member State which adopted it.
## 7.
Before following the procedure laid down in paragraphs 3, 4 or 5, the competent authorities of the management company's host Member State may, in emergencies, take any precautionary measures necessary to protect the interests of investors and others for whom services are provided. The Commission, ESMA, and the competent authorities of the other Member States concerned shall be informed of such measures at the earliest opportunity.

After consulting the competent authorities of the Member States concerned, the Commission may decide that the Member State in question must amend or abolish those measures, without prejudice to power of ESMA under [[2010R1095_EN.17|Article 17 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010]].
## 8.
The competent authorities of the management company’s home Member State shall consult the competent authorities of the UCITS home Member State before withdrawing the authorisation of the management company. In such cases, the competent authorities of the UCITS home Member State shall take appropriate measures to safeguard investors’ interests. Those measures may include decisions preventing the management company concerned from initiating any further transactions within its territory.

Every two years the Commission shall issue a report on such cases.
## 9.
Member States shall inform ESMA and the Commission of the number and type of cases in which they refuse authorisation under [[2009L0065_EN.17|Article 17]] or an application under [[2009L0065_EN.20|Article 20]] and of any measures taken in accordance with paragraph 5 of this Article.

Every two years the Commission shall issue a report on such cases.