---
surnom_texte_lvl1: UCITS
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2009L0065
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2009L0065
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2009L0065_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2009L0065_FR.6]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02009L0065-20250117).
>
> [[2009L0065_EN.5|Article 5 – 1.]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2009L0065_EN.7|Article 7 – 1.]]
>

# Article 6 - 1.


Access to the business of management companies shall be subject to prior authorisation to be granted by the competent authorities of the management company’s home Member State. Authorisation granted under this Directive to a management company shall be valid for all Member States.

ESMA shall be notified of every authorisation granted and shall publish and keep up-to-date a list of authorised management companies on its website.
## 2.
No management company shall engage in activities other than the management of UCITS authorised under this Directive, with the exception of the additional management of other collective investment undertakings which are not covered by this Directive and for which the management company is subject to prudential supervision but the units of which cannot be marketed in other Member States under this Directive.

The activity of management of UCITS shall include, for the purpose of this Directive, the functions referred to in Annex II.
## 3.
By way of derogation from paragraph 2, Member States may authorise management companies to provide, in addition to the management of UCITS, the following services:
### (a)
management of portfolios of investments, including those owned by pension funds, in accordance with mandates given by investors on a discretionary, client-by-client basis, where such portfolios include one or more of the instruments listed in Annex I, Section C to Directive 2004/39/EC; and
### (b)
as non-core services:
#### (i)
investment advice concerning one or more of the instruments listed in Annex I, Section C to Directive 2004/39/EC;
#### (ii)
safekeeping and administration in relation to units of collective investment undertakings.

Management companies shall not be authorised under this Directive to provide only the services referred to in this paragraph, or to provide non-core services without being authorised for the services referred to in point (a) of the first subparagraph.
## 4.
Article 2(2) and Articles [[2009L0065_EN.12|12]], [[2009L0065_EN.13|13]] and [[2009L0065_EN.19|19]] of Directive 2004/39/EC shall apply to the provision of the services referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article by management companies.