---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MICA
surnom_texte_lvl2: MICA416
texte: 2025R0416
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2023R1114
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-09
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2025R0416_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2025R0416_FR.3]]. Back to [[2023R1114_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2025/0416/oj).
>
> [[2025R0416_EN.2|Article 2 – Identification of the parties involved in the order]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2025R0416_EN.4|Article 4 – Identifiers for legal entities and crypto-assets]]
>

> [!tip]- References LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2023R1114_EN.76#16#b]]# Article 3 - Designation to identify natural persons

## 1.
Crypto-asset service provider operating a trading platform for crypto-assets shall identify natural persons in the order book records by using the designation resulting from the concatenation of the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 specified in ISO 3166 followed by the national client identifier as specified in Annex II of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/590 based on the nationality of the person. The two-letter country code shall correspond to the nationality of natural person.
## 2.
The national client identifier referred to in paragraph 1 shall be assigned in accordance with the priority levels provided in Annex II of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/590 using the highest priority identifier that a person has regardless of whether that identifier is already known to the crypto-asset service provider operating a trading platform for crypto-assets.
## 3.
Where a natural person is a national of more than one European Economic Area (EEA) country, the country code of the first nationality when sorted alphabetically by its ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code and the identifier of that nationality assigned in accordance with paragraph 2 shall be used. Where a natural person has a non-EEA nationality, the highest priority identifier in accordance with the field referring to ‘all other countries’ provided in Annex II of Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/590 shall be used. Where a natural person has an EEA and a non-EEA nationality, the country code of the EEA nationality and the highest priority identifier of that nationality assigned in accordance with paragraph 2 shall be used.
## 4.
Where a natural person is a resident of a country other than the one of its nationality, crypto-asset service providers operating a trading platform for crypto-assets shall also identify that natural person based on the country of its residence as specified in field 50 of Table 2 of the Annex.
## 5.
Prefixes to names shall be excluded and first names and surnames shorter than five characters shall be appended by ‘#’. All characters shall be in upper case. No apostrophes, accents, hyphens, punctuation marks or spaces shall be used.
## 6.
Where the identifier assigned in accordance with paragraph 2 is based on CONCAT, the natural person shall be identified by the crypto-asset service provider operating a trading platform for crypto-assets using the concatenation of the following elements in the following order:
### (a)
the date of birth of that person in the format YYYYMMDD;
### (b)
the five first characters of the first name of that person;
### (c)
the five first characters of the surname of that person.