---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MIF2
surnom_texte_lvl2: RTS8
texte: 2017R0578
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014L0065
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2017R0578_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2017R0578_FR.7]]. Back to [[2014L0065_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Open the [[CELEX_32017R0578_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32017R0578).
>
> [[2017R0578_EN.6|Article 6 – Minimum obligations as regards the market making schemes]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2017R0578_EN.8|Article 8 – Entry into force and application]]
>



# Article 7 - Fair and non-discriminatory market making schemes

## 1.
Trading venues shall publish on their websites the terms of the market making schemes, the names of the firms that have signed market making agreements under each of those schemes and the financial instruments covered by those agreements.
## 2.
Trading venues shall communicate any changes to the terms of the market making schemes to the participants in those schemes at least one month prior to their application.
## 3.
Trading venues shall provide the same incentives to all participants who perform equally in terms of presence, size and spread, in their market making schemes.
## 4.
Trading venues shall not limit the number of participants in a market making scheme. However, they may limit the access to the incentives included in the scheme to the firms which have met pre-determined thresholds.
## 5.
Trading venues shall continuously monitor the effective compliance of the participants with the market making schemes.
## 6.
Trading venues shall establish procedures to communicate the existence of stressed market conditions on its trading venue to all participants in a market making scheme through readily accessible channels.