---
surnom_texte_lvl1: PSFP
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2020R1503
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2020R1503
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2020R1503_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2020R1503_FR.43]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32020R1503).
>
> [[2020R1503_EN.42|Article 42 – Publication of decisions]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2020R1503_EN.44|Article 44 – Exercise of the delegation]]
>

# Article 43 - The reporting of penalties and administrative measures to ESMA

## 1.
The competent authority shall, on an annual basis, provide ESMA with aggregate information regarding all administrative penalties and other administrative measures imposed in accordance with [[2020R1503_EN.39|Article 39]]. ESMA shall publish that information in an annual report.
Where Member States have chosen, in accordance with [[2020R1503_EN.39#1|Article 39(1)]], to lay down criminal penalties for the infringements of the provisions referred to in that paragraph, their competent authorities shall provide ESMA annually with anonymised and aggregated data regarding all criminal investigations undertaken and criminal penalties imposed. ESMA shall publish data on criminal penalties imposed in an annual report.
## 2.
Where the competent authority has disclosed administrative penalties, other administrative measures or criminal penalties to the public, it shall simultaneously report them to ESMA.
## 3.
Competent authorities shall inform ESMA of all administrative penalties or other administrative measures imposed but not published, including any appeal in relation thereto and the outcome thereof. Member States shall ensure that competent authorities receive information and the final judgment in relation to any criminal penalty imposed and submit it to ESMA. ESMA shall maintain a central database of penalties and administrative measures communicated to it solely for the purposes of exchanging information between competent authorities. That database shall be only accessible to ESMA, EBA and the competent authorities and it shall be updated on the basis of the information provided by the competent authorities.