---
surnom_texte_lvl1: PSFP
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2020R1503
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2020R1503
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2020R1503_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2020R1503_FR.23]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32020R1503).
>
> [[2020R1503_EN.22|Article 22 – Pre-contractual reflection period]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2020R1503_EN.24|Article 24 – Key investment information sheet at platform level]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 2 reference(s): [[2022R2119_EN.1]], [[2022R2119_EN.3]]# Article 23 - Key investment information sheet

## 1.
Crowdfunding service providers shall provide prospective investors with all of the information referred to in this Article.
## 2.
Crowdfunding service providers shall provide prospective investors with a key investment information sheet drawn up by the project owner for each crowdfunding offer. The key investment information sheet shall be drafted in at least one of the official languages of the Member State whose competent authorities granted the authorisation in accordance with [[2020R1503_EN.12|Article 12]] or in another language accepted by those authorities.
## 3.
Where a crowdfunding service provider promotes a crowdfunding offer through marketing communication in another Member State, the key investment information sheet shall be made available in at least one of the official languages of that Member State or in a language accepted by the competent authorities of that Member State.
## 4.
Crowdfunding service providers shall not be prevented from arranging for a translation of the key investment information sheet into any language or languages other than those referred to in paragraph 2 or 3. Those translations shall accurately reflect the content of the original key investment information sheet.
## 5.
The competent authorities shall inform ESMA about the language or languages that they accept for the purposes of this Regulation as referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3. ESMA shall make that information available on its website.
## 6.
The key investment information sheet referred to in paragraph 2 shall contain all of the following information:
### (a)
the information set out in Annex I;
### (b)
the following disclaimer, appearing directly underneath the title of the key investment information sheet:

‘This crowdfunding offer has been neither verified nor approved by competent authorities or the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA).

The appropriateness of your experience and knowledge have not necessarily been assessed before you were granted access to this investment. By making this investment, you assume full risk of taking this investment, including the risk of partial or entire loss of the money invested.’;
### (c)
the following risk warning:

‘Investment in this crowdfunding project entails risks, including the risk of partial or entire loss of the money invested. Your investment is not covered by the deposit guarantee schemes established in accordance with Directive 2014/49/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council


. Nor is your investment covered by the investor compensation schemes established in accordance with Directive 97/9/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council


.

You may not receive any return on your investment.

This is not a savings product and we advise you not to invest more than 10 % of your net worth in crowdfunding projects.

You may not be able to sell the investment instruments when you wish. If you are able to sell them, you may nonetheless incur losses.

Directive 2014/49/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on deposit guarantee schemes."

Directive 97/9/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 March 1997 on investor-compensation schemes.’."
## 7.
The key investment information sheet shall be fair, clear and not misleading and shall not contain any footnotes, other than those with references, including quotations where appropriate, to the applicable law. It shall be presented on a stand-alone, durable medium that is clearly distinguishable from marketing communications and consist of a maximum of six sides of A4-sized paper format if printed. In the case of admitted instruments for crowdfunding purposes, where the information required under Part F of Annex I exceeds one side of A4-sized paper format if printed, the remainder shall be produced in an annex attached to the key investment information sheet.
## 8.
The crowdfunding service provider shall request the project owner to notify it of any change of information in order to keep the key investment information sheet updated at all times and for the duration of the crowdfunding offer. The crowdfunding service provider shall immediately inform investors who have made an offer to invest or expressed an interest in the crowdfunding offer about any material change to the information in the key investment information sheet that was notified to it.
## 9.
Member States shall ensure the responsibility of at least the project owner or its administrative, management or supervisory bodies for the information given in a key investment information sheet. Those responsible for the key investment information sheet shall be clearly identified in the key investment information sheet by, in the case of natural persons, their names and functions or, in the case of legal persons, their names and registered offices, as well as declarations by them that, to the best of their knowledge, the information contained in the key investment information sheet is in accordance with the facts and that the key investment information sheet makes no omission likely to affect its import.
## 10.
Member States shall ensure that their laws, regulations and administrative provisions on civil liability apply to natural and legal persons responsible for the information given in a key investment information sheet, including any translation thereof, in at least the following situations:
### (a)
the information is misleading or inaccurate; or
### (b)
the key investment information sheet omits key information needed to aid investors when considering whether to finance the crowdfunding project.
## 11.
Crowdfunding service providers shall have in place and apply adequate procedures to verify the completeness, correctness and clarity of the information contained in the key investment information sheet.
## 12.
When a crowdfunding service provider identifies an omission, mistake or inaccuracy in the key investment information sheet that could have a material impact on the expected return of the investment, that crowdfunding service provider shall signal such an omission, mistake or inaccuracy promptly to the project owner, who shall promptly complete or correct that information.
Where such completion or correction is not made promptly, the crowdfunding service provider shall suspend the crowdfunding offer until the key investment information sheet has been completed or corrected, but for a period of no longer than 30 calendar days.

The crowdfunding service provider shall immediately inform investors who have made an offer to invest or expressed an interest in the crowdfunding offer about such identified irregularities, the steps taken and further to be taken by the crowdfunding service provider and the option to revoke their offer to invest or their expression of interest in the crowdfunding offer.

If, after 30 calendar days, the key investment information sheet has not been completed or corrected to rectify all identified irregularities, the crowdfunding offer shall be cancelled.
## 13.
A prospective investor may request a crowdfunding service provider to arrange for a translation of the key investment information sheet into a language of the investor’s choice. The translation shall faithfully and accurately reflect the content of the original key investment information sheet.
Where the crowdfunding service provider does not provide the requested translation of the key investment information sheet, the crowdfunding service provider shall clearly advise the prospective investor to refrain from making the investment.
## 14.
Competent authorities of the Member State where the authorisation was granted to the crowdfunding service provider may require an
ex ante

notification of a key investment information sheet at least seven working days before making it available to prospective investors. Key investment information sheets shall not be subject to

ex ante

approval by the competent authorities.
## 15.
Where prospective investors are provided with a key investment information sheet drawn up in accordance with this Article, the crowdfunding service providers and the project owners shall be considered to have satisfied the obligation to draw up a key information document in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 1286/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council

.

The first subparagraph shall apply

mutatis mutandis

to natural or legal persons advising on, or marketing, a crowdfunding offer.
## 16.
ESMA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to specify the following:
### (a)
the requirements for and content of the model for presenting the information referred to in paragraph 6 and Annex I;
### (b)
the types of main risks that are associated with the crowdfunding offer and therefore must be disclosed in accordance with Part C of Annex I;
### (c)
the use of certain financial ratios to enhance the clarity of key financial information, including for presenting the information referred to in point (e) of Part A of Annex I;
### (d)
the commissions and fees and transaction costs covered by point (a) of Part H of Annex I, including a detailed breakdown of direct and indirect costs to be borne by the investor.

When developing those draft regulatory technical standards, ESMA shall take into account the nature, scale and complexity of the crowdfunding services provided by the crowdfunding service provider.

ESMA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to the Commission by 10 May 2022.

Power is delegated to the Commission to supplement this Regulation by adopting the regulatory technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph of this paragraph in accordance with Articles [[2010R1095_EN.10|10]] to [[2010R1095_EN.14|14]] of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010.