---
surnom_texte_lvl1: PSFP
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2020R1503
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2020R1503
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2020R1503_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2020R1503_FR.44]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32020R1503).
>
> [[2020R1503_EN.43|Article 43 – The reporting of penalties and administrative measures to ESMA]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2020R1503_EN.45|Article 45 – Report]]
>

# Article 44 - Exercise of the delegation

## 1.
The power to adopt delegated acts is conferred on the Commission subject to the conditions laid down in this Article.
## 2.
The power to adopt delegated acts referred to in [[2020R1503_EN.48#3|Article 48(3)]] shall be conferred on the Commission for a period of 36 months from 9 November 2020.
## 3.
The delegation of powers referred to in [[2020R1503_EN.48#3|Article 48(3)]] may be revoked at any time by the European Parliament or by the Council. A decision to revoke shall put an end to the delegation of the power specified in that decision. It shall take effect the day following the publication of the decision in the Official Journal of the European Union or at a later date specified therein. It shall not affect the validity of any delegated acts already in force.
## 4.
Before adopting a delegated act, the Commission shall consult experts designated by each Member State in accordance with the principles laid down in the Interinstitutional Agreement of 13 April 2016 on Better Law-Making.
## 5.
As soon as it adopts a delegated act, the Commission shall notify it simultaneously to the European Parliament and to the Council.
## 6.
A delegated act adopted pursuant to [[2020R1503_EN.48#3|Article 48(3)]] shall enter into force only if no objection has been expressed either by the European Parliament or by the Council within a period of three months of notification of that act to the European Parliament and to the Council or if, before the expiry of that period, the European Parliament and the Council have both informed the Commission that they will not object. That period shall be extended by three months at the initiative of the European Parliament or of the Council.