---
surnom_texte_lvl1: PSFP
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2020R1503
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2020R1503
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2020R1503_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2020R1503_FR.3]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32020R1503).
>
> [[2020R1503_EN.2|Article 2 – Definitions]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2020R1503_EN.4|Article 4 – Effective and prudent management]]
>

# Article 3 - Provision of crowdfunding services

## 1.
Crowdfunding services shall only be provided by legal persons that are established in the Union and that have been authorised as crowdfunding service providers in accordance with [[2020R1503_EN.12|Article 12]].
## 2.
Crowdfunding service providers shall act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of their clients.
## 3.
Crowdfunding service providers shall not pay or accept any remuneration, discount or non-monetary benefit for routing investors’ orders to a particular crowdfunding offer made on their crowdfunding platform or to a particular crowdfunding offer made on a third-party crowdfunding platform.
## 4.
Crowdfunding service providers may propose to individual investors specific crowdfunding projects that correspond to one or more specific parameters or risk indicators chosen by the investor. Where the investor wishes to make an investment in the suggested crowdfunding projects, the investor shall review and expressly take an investment decision in relation to each individual crowdfunding offer.
Crowdfunding service providers that provide individual portfolio management of loans shall do so in adherence to the parameters provided by the investors and shall take all necessary steps to obtain the best possible result for those investors. Crowdfunding service providers shall disclose to investors the decision-making process for executing the received discretionary mandate.
## 5.
By way of derogation from the first subparagraph of paragraph 4, crowdfunding service providers providing individual portfolio management of loans may exercise discretion on behalf of their investors within the agreed parameters without requiring investors to review and take an investment decision in relation to each individual crowdfunding offer.
## 6.
Where a special purpose vehicle is used for the provision of crowdfunding services, only one illiquid or indivisible asset shall be offered through such a special purpose vehicle. That requirement shall apply on a look-through basis to the underlying illiquid or indivisible asset held by financial or legal structures fully or partially owned or controlled by the special purpose vehicle. The decision to take exposure to that underlying asset shall exclusively lie with investors.