---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MICA
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2023R1114
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2023R1114
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2023R1114_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2023R1114_FR.134]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02023R1114-20240109).
>
> [[2023R1114_EN.133|Article 133 – Disclosure, nature, enforcement and allocation of fines and periodic penalty payments]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2023R1114_EN.135|Article 135 – Hearing of the persons concerned]]
>

# Article 134 - Procedural rules for taking supervisory measures and imposing fines

## 1.
Where, in carrying out its supervisory responsibilities under [[2023R1114_EN.117|Article 117]], there are clear and demonstrable grounds to suspect that there has been or will be an infringement as listed in Annex V or VI, EBA shall appoint an independent investigation officer within EBA to investigate the matter. The investigation officer shall not be involved or have been directly or indirectly involved in the supervision of the *[[2023R1114_EN.3#(10)|issuers]]* of significant *[[2023R1114_EN.3#(6)|asset-referenced tokens]]* or *[[2023R1114_EN.3#(10)|issuers]]* of significant *[[2023R1114_EN.3#(7)|e-money tokens]]* concerned and shall perform its functions independently from EBA.
## 2.
The investigation officer shall investigate the alleged infringements, taking into account any comments submitted by the persons who are subject to the investigation, and shall submit a complete file with the investigation officer’s findings to EBA.
## 3.
In order to carry out its tasks, the investigation officer may exercise the power to request information in accordance with [[2023R1114_EN.122|Article 122]] and the power to conduct investigations and on-site inspections in accordance with Articles [[2023R1114_EN.123|123]] and [[2023R1114_EN.124|124]]. When using those powers, the investigation officer shall comply with [[2023R1114_EN.121|Article 121]].
## 4.
Where carrying out its tasks, the investigation officer shall have access to all documents and information gathered by EBA in its supervisory activities.
## 5.
Upon completion of its investigation and before submitting the file with its findings to EBA, the investigation officer shall give the persons subject to the investigation the opportunity to be heard on the matters being investigated. The investigation officer shall base its findings only on facts on which the persons concerned have had the opportunity to comment.
## 6.
The rights of the defence of the persons concerned shall be fully respected during investigations under this Article.
## 7.
When submitting the file with its findings to EBA, the investigation officer shall notify the persons who are subject to the investigation thereof. The persons subject to the investigation shall be entitled to have access to the file, subject to the legitimate interest of other persons in the protection of their business secrets. The right of access to the file shall not extend to confidential information affecting third parties or EBA’s internal preparatory documents.
## 8.
Based on the file containing the investigation officer’s findings and, when requested by the persons subject to the investigation, after having heard those persons in accordance with [[2023R1114_EN.135|Article 135]], EBA shall decide whether an infringement as listed in Annex V or VI has been committed by the *[[2023R1114_EN.3#(10)|issuer]]* of the significant *[[2023R1114_EN.3#(6)|asset-referenced token]]* or the *[[2023R1114_EN.3#(10)|issuer]]* of the significant *[[2023R1114_EN.3#(7)|e-money token]]* subject to the investigation and, in such a case, shall take a supervisory measure in accordance with [[2023R1114_EN.130|Article 130]] or impose a fine in accordance with [[2023R1114_EN.131|Article 131]].
## 9.
The investigation officer shall not participate in EBA’s deliberations or in any other way intervene in EBA’s decision-making process.
## 10.
The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with [[2023R1114_EN.139|Article 139]] by 30 June 2024 to supplement this Regulation by specifying further the procedural rules for the exercise of the power to impose fines or periodic penalty payments, including provisions on the rights of the defence, temporal provisions, the collection of fines or periodic penalty payments and the limitation periods for the imposition and enforcement of fines and periodic penalty payments.
## 11.
EBA shall bring matters to the attention of the relevant national authorities for investigation and, where appropriate, criminal prosecution where, in carrying out its duties under this Regulation, it finds that there are serious indications of the possible existence of facts liable to constitute criminal offences. In addition, EBA shall refrain from imposing fines or periodic penalty payments where it is aware that a prior acquittal or conviction arising from an identical fact or facts which are substantially the same has already acquired the force of

res judicata

as a result of criminal proceedings under national law.