---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MICA
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2023R1114
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2023R1114
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2023R1114_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2023R1114_FR.139]]. Open the [[CELEX_02023R1114-20240109_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02023R1114-20240109).
>
> [[2023R1114_EN.138|Article 138 – Delegation of tasks by EBA to competent authorities]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2023R1114_EN.140|Article 140 – Reports on the application of this Regulation]]
>



# Article 139 - Exercise of the delegation

## 1.
The power to adopt delegated acts is conferred on the Commission subject to the conditions laid down in this Article.
## 2.
The power to adopt delegated acts referred to in Articles [[2023R1114_EN.3|3]](2), 43(11), 103(8), 104(8), 105(7), 134(10) and 137(3) shall be conferred on the Commission for a period of 36 months from 29 June 2023. The Commission shall draw up a report in respect of the delegation of power not later than nine months before the end of the 36-month period. The delegation of power shall be tacitly extended for periods of an identical duration, unless the European Parliament or the Council opposes such extension not later than three months before the end of each period.
## 3.
The delegation of powers referred to in Articles [[2023R1114_EN.3|3]](2), 43(11), 103(8), 104(8), 105(7), 134(10) and 137(3) may be revoked at any time by the European Parliament or by the Council. A decision to revoke shall put an end to the delegation of the power specified in that decision. It shall take effect the day following the publication of the decision in the Official Journal of the European Union or at a later date specified therein. It shall not affect the validity of any delegated acts already in force.
## 4.
Before adopting a delegated act, the Commission shall consult experts designated by each Member State in accordance with the principles laid down in the Interinstitutional Agreement of 13 April 2016 on Better Law-Making.
## 5.
As soon as it adopts a delegated act, the Commission shall notify it simultaneously to the European Parliament and to the Council.
## 6.
A delegated act adopted pursuant to Articles [[2023R1114_EN.3|3]](2), 43(11), 103(8), 104(8), 105(7), 134(10) and 137(3) shall enter into force only if no objection has been expressed either by the European Parliament or by the Council within a period of three months of notification of that act to the European Parliament and to the Council or if, before the expiry of that period, the European Parliament and the Council have both informed the Commission that they will not object. That period shall be extended by three months on the initiative of the European Parliament or of the Council.