---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MICA
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2023R1114
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2023R1114
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
# ANNEX VI - LIST OF INFRINGEMENTS OF PROVISIONS REFERRED TO IN TITLE IV IN CONJUNCTION WITH TITLE III FOR ISSUERS OF SIGNIFICANT E-MONEY TOKENS
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2023R1114_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2023R1114_FR.VI]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02023R1114-20240109).
>
> [[2023R1114_EN.V|Article V – LIST OF INFRINGEMENTS REFERRED TO IN TITLES III AND VI FOR ISSUERS OF SIGNIFICANT ASSET-REFERENCED TOKENS]] ⬅️ | ➡️ *Retour au [[2023R1114_EN.0|sommaire]]*
>


## 1.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.22#1|Article 22(1)]] by not reporting, for each significant e-money token denominated in a currency that is not an official currency of a Member State with an issue value that is higher than EUR 100 000 000 , on a quarterly basis to EBA, the information referred to in the first subparagraph, points (a) to (d), of that paragraph.
## 2.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.23#1|Article 23(1)]] by not stopping issuing a significant e-money token denominated in a currency that is not an official currency of a Member State upon reaching the thresholds provided for in that paragraph or by not submitting a plan to EBA within 40 working days of reaching those thresholds to ensure that the estimated quarterly average number and average aggregate value of the transactions per day are kept below those thresholds.
## 3.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.23#4|Article 23(4)]] by not complying with the modifications of the plan referred to in paragraph 1, point (b), of that Article as required by EBA.
## 4.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.35#2|Article 35(2)]] of this Regulation where its own funds do not consist of the Common Equity Tier 1 items and instruments referred to in Articles [[2013R0575_EN.26|26]] to [[2013R575_EN.30|30]] of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 after the deductions in full, pursuant to Article 36 of that Regulation, without the application of threshold exemptions referred to in Article 46(4) and Article 48 of that Regulation.
## 5.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.35#3|Article 35(3)]] by not complying with the requirement of EBA to hold a higher amount of own funds, following the assessment made in accordance with points (a) to (g) of that paragraph.
## 6.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.35#5|Article 35(5)]] by not conducting, on a regular basis, stress testing that takes into account severe but plausible financial stress scenarios, such as interest rate shocks, and non-financial stress scenarios, such as operational risk.
## 7.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.35#5|Article 35(5)]] by not complying with the requirement of EBA to hold a higher amount of own funds based on the outcome of the stress testing.
## 8.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.36#1|Article 36(1)]] by not constituting and, at all times, maintaining a reserve of assets.
## 9.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.36#1|Article 36(1)]] by not ensuring that the reserve of assets is composed and managed in such a way that the risks associated to the official currency referenced by the significant e-money token are covered.
## 10.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.36#1|Article 36(1)]] by not ensuring that the reserve of assets is composed and managed in such a way that the liquidity risks associated to the permanent rights of redemption of the holders are addressed.
## 11.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.36#3|Article 36(3)]] by not ensuring that the reserve of assets is operationally segregated from the issuer’s estate, and from the reserve of assets of other e-money tokens.
## 12.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.36#6|Article 36(6)]] where its management body does not ensure effective and prudent management of the reserve of assets.
## 13.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.36#6|Article 36(6)]] by not ensuring that the issuance and redemption of the significant e-money token is always matched by a corresponding increase or decrease in the reserve of assets.
## 14.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.36#7|Article 36(7)]] by not determining the aggregate value of the reserve of assets by using market prices, and by not having its aggregate value always at least equal to the aggregate value of the claims against the issuer from the holders of the significant e-money token in circulation.
## 15.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.36#8|Article 36(8)]] by not having a clear and detailed policy describing the stabilisation mechanism of the significant e-money token that meets the conditions set out in points (a) to (g) of that paragraph.
## 16.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.36#9|Article 36(9)]] by not mandating an independent audit of the reserve of assets every six months after the date of the offer to the public or admission to trading.
## 17.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.36#10|Article 36(10)]] by not notifying to EBA the result of the audit in accordance with that paragraph or by not publishing the result of the audit within two weeks of the date of notification to EBA.
## 18.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.37#1|Article 37(1)]] by not establishing, maintaining or implementing custody policies, procedures and contractual arrangements that ensure at all times that the conditions listed in the first subparagraph, points (a) to (e), of that paragraph are met.
## 19.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.37#2|Article 37(2)]] by not having, when issuing two or more significant e-money tokens, a custody policy in place for each pool of reserve of assets.
## 20.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.37#3|Article 37(3)]] by not ensuring that the reserve assets are held in custody by a crypto-asset service provider providing custody and administration of crypto-assets on behalf of clients, a credit institution or an investment firm by no later than five working days after the date of issuance of the significant e-money token.
## 21.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.37#4|Article 37(4)]] by not exercising all due skill, care and diligence in the selection, appointment and review of crypto-asset service providers, credit institutions and investment firms appointed as custodians of the reserve assets or by not ensuring that the custodian is a legal person different from the issuer.
## 22.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.37#4|Article 37(4)]] by not ensuring that the crypto-asset service providers, credit institutions and investment firms appointed as custodians of the reserve assets have the necessary expertise and market reputation to act as custodians of such reserve assets.
## 23.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.37#4|Article 37(4)]] by not ensuring in the contractual arrangements with the custodians that the reserve assets held in custody are protected against claims of the custodians’ creditors.
## 24.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.37#5|Article 37(5)]] by not setting out in the custody policies and procedures the selection criteria for the appointment of crypto-asset service providers, credit institutions or investment firms as custodians of the reserve assets or by not setting out the procedure for reviewing such appointment.
## 25.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.37#5|Article 37(5)]] by not reviewing the appointment of crypto-asset service providers, credit institutions or investment firms as custodians of the reserve assets on a regular basis, and by not evaluating its exposures to such custodians, or by not monitoring the financial conditions of such custodians on an ongoing basis.
## 26.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.37#6|Article 37(6)]] by not ensuring that the custody of the reserve assets is carried out in accordance with the first subparagraph, points (a) to (d), of that paragraph.
## 27.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.37#7|Article 37(7)]] by not having the appointment of a crypto-asset service provider, credit institution or investment firm as custodian of the reserve assets evidenced by a contractual arrangement, or by not regulating, by means of such a contractual arrangement, the flow of information necessary to enable the issuer of the significant e-money token, the crypto-asset service provider, the credit institutions and the investment firm to perform their functions as custodians.
## 28.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.38#1|Article 38(1)]] by investing the reserve of assets in any products that are not highly liquid financial instruments with minimal market risk, credit risk and concentration risks or where such investments cannot be liquidated rapidly with minimal adverse price effect.
## 29.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.38#3|Article 38(3)]] by not holding in custody in accordance with [[2023R1114_EN.37|Article 37]] the financial instruments in which the reserve of assets is invested.
## 30.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.38#4|Article 38(4)]] by not bearing all profits and losses and any counterparty or operational risks that result from the investment of the reserve of assets.
## 31.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.45#1|Article 45(1)]] by not adopting, implementing and maintaining a remuneration policy that promotes the sound and effective risk management of issuers of significant e-money tokens and that does not create incentives to relax risk standards.
## 32.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.45#2|Article 45(2)]] by not ensuring that its significant e-money token can be held in custody by different crypto-asset service providers authorised for providing custody and administration of crypto-assets on behalf of clients on a fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory basis.
## 33.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.45#3|Article 45(3)]] by not assessing or monitoring the liquidity needs to meet requests for redemption of the significant e-money token by its holders.
## 34.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.45#3|Article 45(3)]] by not establishing, maintaining or implementing a liquidity management policy and procedures or by not ensuring, with those policy and procedures, that the reserve assets have a resilient liquidity profile that enables the issuer of the significant e-money token to continue operating normally, including under liquidity stressed scenarios.
## 35.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.45#4|Article 45(4)]] by not conducting, on a regular basis, liquidity stress testing or by not strengthening the liquidity requirements where requested by EBA based on the outcome of such tests.
## 36.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.45#5|Article 45(5)]] by not complying, at all times, with the own funds requirement.
## 37.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.46#1|Article 46(1)]] by not drawing up and maintaining a recovery plan providing for measures to be taken by the issuer of significant e-money tokens to restore compliance with the requirements applicable to the reserve of assets in cases where the issuer fails to comply with those requirements, including the preservation of its services related to the significant e-money token, the timely recovery of operations and the fulfilment of the issuer’s obligations in the case of events that pose a significant risk of disrupting operations.
## 38.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.46#1|Article 46(1)]] by not drawing up and maintaining a recovery plan that includes appropriate conditions and procedures to ensure the timely implementation of recovery actions as well as a wide range of recovery options, as listed in the third subparagraph, points (a), (b) and (c), of that paragraph.
## 39.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.46#2|Article 46(2)]] by not notifying the recovery plan to EBA and, where applicable, to its resolution and prudential supervisory authorities, within six months of the date of the offer to the public or admission to trading.
## 40.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.46#2|Article 46(2)]] by not regularly reviewing or updating the recovery plan.
## 41.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.47#1|Article 47(1)]] by not drawing up and maintaining an operational plan that supports the orderly redemption of each significant e-money token.
## 42.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.47#2|Article 47(2)]] by not having a redemption plan that demonstrates the ability of the issuer of the significant e-money token to carry out the redemption of the outstanding significant e-money token issued without causing undue economic harm to its holders or to the stability of the markets of the reserve assets.
## 43.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.47#2|Article 47(2)]] by not having a redemption plan that includes contractual arrangements, procedures or systems, including the designation of a temporary administrator, to ensure the equitable treatment of all holders of the significant e-money token and to ensure that holders of the significant e-money token are paid in a timely manner with the proceeds from the sale of the remaining reserve assets.
## 44.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.47#2|Article 47(2)]] by not having a redemption plan that ensures the continuity of any critical activities that are necessary for the orderly redemption and that are performed by the issuer or by any third-party entities.
## 45.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.47#3|Article 47(3)]] by not notifying the redemption plan to EBA within six months of the date of the offer to the public or admission to trading.
## 46.
The issuer infringes [[2023R1114_EN.47#3|Article 47(3)]] by not regularly reviewing or updating the redemption plan.### Table 1 in anx_IV

| Crypto-asset service providers | Type of crypto-asset services | Minimum capital requirements under Article 67(1), point (a) |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Class 1 | Crypto-asset service provider authorised for the following crypto-asset services:— execution of orders on behalf of clients;— placing of crypto-assets;— providing transfer services for crypto-assets on behalf of clients;— reception and transmission of orders for crypto-assets on behalf of clients;— providing advice on crypto-assets; and/or— providing portfolio management on crypto-assets. | EUR 50 000 |
| Class 2 | Crypto-asset service provider authorised for any crypto-asset services under class 1 and:— providing custody and administration of crypto-assets on behalf of clients;— exchange of crypto-assets for funds; and/or— exchange of crypto-assets for other crypto-assets. | EUR 125 000 |
| Class 3 | Crypto-asset service provider authorised for any crypto-asset services under class 2 and:— operation of a trading platform for crypto-assets. | EUR 150 000 |
