---
surnom_texte_lvl1: EuSEF
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2013R0346
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2013R0346
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2013R0346_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2013R0346_FR.21]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02013R0346-20240109).
>
> [[2013R0346_EN.20|Article 20 – Competent authorities shall, in accordance with national law, have all supervisory and investigatory powers that are necessary for the exercise of their functions. They shall, in particular, have the power to:]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2013R0346_EN.22|Article 22 – 1.]]
>



# Article 21 - 1.


Member States shall lay down the rules on administrative penalties and other measures applicable to breaches of the provisions of this Regulation and shall take all measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented. The administrative penalties and other measures provided for shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
## 2.
By
2 March 2020

the Member States shall notify the Commission and ESMA of the rules referred to in paragraph 1. They shall notify the Commission and ESMA without delay of any subsequent amendment thereto.
## 3.
Managers as referred to in [[2013R0346_EN.2#1|Article 2(1)]] shall comply at all times with this Regulation and shall also be liable for any infringements of this Regulation, including for any losses or damages resulting therefrom.

Managers as referred to in [[2013R0346_EN.2#2|Article 2(2)]] shall comply at all times with Directive 2011/61/EU. They shall be responsible for ensuring compliance with this Regulation and shall be liable in accordance with Directive 2011/61/EU. Those managers shall also be liable for any losses or damages resulting from the infringement of this Regulation.