---
surnom_texte_lvl1: EuSEF
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2013R0346
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2013R0346
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2013R0346_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2013R0346_FR.19]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02013R0346-20240109).
>
> [[2013R0346_EN.18a|Article 18a – Accessibility of information on the European single access point]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2013R0346_EN.20|Article 20 – Competent authorities shall, in accordance with national law, have all supervisory and investigatory powers that are necessary for the exercise of their functions. They shall, in particular, have the power to:]]
>

# Article 19 - 1.


The competent authority of the home Member State shall supervise compliance with the requirements laid down in this Regulation.
## 1a.
For managers as referred to in [[2013R0346_EN.2#2|Article 2(2)]], the competent authority of the home Member State shall be responsible for supervising the compliance with and the adequacy of the arrangements and of the organisation of the manager, so that that manager is in a position to comply with the obligations and rules which relate to the constitution and functioning of all the qualifying social entrepreneurship funds that it manages.
## 1b.
For a qualifying social entrepreneurship fund managed by a manager as referred to in [[2013R0346_EN.2#2|Article 2(2)]], the competent authority of the qualifying social entrepreneurship fund shall be responsible for supervising the qualifying social entrepreneurship fund's compliance with the rules laid down in Articles [[2013R0346_EN.5|5]] and [[2013R0346_EN.6|6]] and points (c) and (i) of [[2013R0346_EN.14#1|Article 14(1)]]. The competent authority of the qualifying social entrepreneurship fund shall also be responsible for supervising that fund's compliance with the obligations set out in the fund’s rules or instruments of incorporation.
## 2.
Where there are clear and demonstrable grounds that lead the competent authority of the host Member State to believe that the manager of a qualifying social entrepreneurship fund is in breach of this Regulation within its territory, it shall promptly inform the competent authority of the home Member State accordingly. The competent authority of the home Member State shall take appropriate measures.
## 3.
If the manager of a qualifying social entrepreneurship fund persists in acting in a manner that is clearly in breach of this Regulation despite measures taken by the competent authority of the home Member State or because that competent authority has failed to take measures within reasonable time, the competent authority of the host Member State may, after informing the competent authority of the home Member State, take all the appropriate measures in order to protect investors, including prohibiting the manager of a qualifying social entrepreneurship fund from carrying out any further marketing of its qualifying social entrepreneurship funds within the territory of the host Member State.