---
surnom_texte_lvl1: EuSEF
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2013R0346
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2013R0346
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2013R0346_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2013R0346_FR.26]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02013R0346-20240109).
>
> [[2013R0346_EN.25|Article 25 – In the event of disagreement between competent authorities of Member States on an assessment, action or omission of one competent authority in areas where this Regulation requires cooperation or coordination between competent authorities from more than one Member State, competent authorities may refer the matter to ESMA, which may act in accordance with the powers conferred on it under Article 19 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010, in so far as the disagreement does not relate to point (b)(i) or to point (d)(i) of Article 3(1) of this Regulation.]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2013R0346_EN.27|Article 27 – 1.]]
>

# Article 26 - 1.


The power to adopt delegated acts is conferred on the Commission subject to the conditions set out in this Article.
## 2.
The delegation of power referred to in [[2013R0346_EN.3#2|Article 3(2)]], [[2013R0346_EN.9#5|Article 9(5)]], Article 10(2) and [[2013R0346_EN.14#4|Article 14(4)]] shall be conferred on the Commission for a period of four years from 15 May 2013. The Commission shall draw up a report in respect of the delegation of powers not later than nine months before the end of the four year period. The delegation of power shall be tacitly extended for periods of an identical duration, unless the European Parliament or the Council opposes such extension not later than three months before the end of each period.
## 3.
The delegation of powers referred to in [[2013R0346_EN.3#2|Article 3(2)]], [[2013R0346_EN.9#5|Article 9(5)]], Article 10(2) and [[2013R0346_EN.14#4|Article 14(4)]] may be revoked at any time by the European Parliament or by the Council. A decision to revoke shall put an end to the delegation of the power specified in that decision. It shall take effect the day following the publication of the decision in the Official Journal of the European Union or at a later date specified therein. It shall not affect the validity of any delegated acts already in force.
## 4.
As soon as it adopts a delegated act, the Commission shall notify it simultaneously to the European Parliament and to the Council.
## 5.
A delegated act adopted pursuant to [[2013R0346_EN.3#2|Article 3(2)]], [[2013R0346_EN.9#5|Article 9(5)]], [[2013R0346_EN.10#2|Article 10(2)]] or [[2013R0346_EN.14#4|Article 14(4)]] shall enter into force only if no objection has been expressed either by the European Parliament or the Council within a period of three months of notification of that act to the European Parliament and the Council or if, before the expiry of that period, the European Parliament and the Council have both informed the Commission that they will not object. That period shall be extended by three months at the initiative of the European Parliament or the Council.