---
surnom_texte_lvl1: CCPRR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2021R0023
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2021R0023
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-06
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2021R0023_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2021R0023_FR.81]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32021R0023).
>
> [[2021R0023_EN.80|Article 80 – Exchange of confidential information]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2021R0023_EN.82|Article 82 – Specific provisions]]
>

# Article 81 - Administrative penalties and other administrative measures

## 1.
Without prejudice to the right of Member States to provide for and impose criminal penalties, Member States shall lay down rules on administrative penalties and other administrative measures applicable where this Regulation has not been complied with, and shall take all measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented.
Where Member States decide not to lay down rules on administrative penalties for infringements which are subject to national criminal law, they shall communicate to the Commission and to ESMA the relevant criminal law provisions. The administrative penalties and other administrative measures shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive.

By 12 August 2022, Member States shall notify, in detail, the rules referred to in the first and second subparagraphs of this paragraph to the Commission and to ESMA. They shall notify the Commission and ESMA without delay of any subsequent amendments thereto.
## 2.
Member States shall ensure that, where the obligations referred to in paragraph 1 apply to *[[2021R0023_EN.2#(1)|CCPs]]* and *[[2021R0023_EN.2#(12)|clearing members]]*, in the event of an infringement, the administrative penalties or other administrative measures referred to in that paragraph can be applied, subject to the conditions laid down in national law, to the *[[2021R0023_EN.2#(23)|board]]* and the *[[2021R0023_EN.2#(37)|senior management]]* of *[[2021R0023_EN.2#(1)|CCPs]]* and of *[[2021R0023_EN.2#(12)|clearing members]]* and to other natural persons who under national law are responsible for the infringement.
## 3.
The powers to impose administrative penalties or other administrative measures provided for in this Regulation shall be attributed to resolution authorities or, where different, to competent authorities, depending on the type of infringement. Resolution authorities and competent authorities shall have all information-gathering and investigatory powers that are necessary for the exercise of their respective functions. In the exercise of their powers to impose penalties, resolution authorities and competent authorities shall cooperate closely to ensure that administrative penalties or other administrative measures produce the desired results and coordinate their action when dealing with cross-border cases.
## 4.
Resolution authorities and competent authorities shall exercise their powers to impose administrative penalties or other administrative measures in accordance with this Regulation and national law in any of the following ways:
### (a)
directly;
### (b)
in collaboration with other authorities;
### (c)
under their responsibility by delegation to such authorities;
### (d)
by application to the competent judicial authorities.