---
surnom_texte_lvl1: ELTIF
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2015R0760
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2015R0760
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2015R0760_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2015R0760_FR.24]]. Open the [[CELEX_02015R0760-20240110_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02015R0760-20240110).
>
> [[2015R0760_EN.23|Article 23 – Transparency]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2015R0760_EN.25|Article 25 – Cost disclosure]]
>



# Article 24 - Additional requirements of the prospectus

## 1.
An *[[2015R0760_EN.2#3.|ELTIF]]* shall send its prospectus and any amendments thereto, as well as its annual report, to the competent authorities of the *[[2015R0760_EN.2#3.|ELTIF]]*. Upon request, an *[[2015R0760_EN.2#3.|ELTIF]]* shall provide this documentation to the *[[2015R0760_EN.2#(13)|competent authority of the manager of the ELTIF]]*. This documentation shall be provided by the *[[2015R0760_EN.2#3.|ELTIF]]* within the time period specified by these competent authorities.
## 2.
The rules or instruments of incorporation of an *[[2015R0760_EN.2#3.|ELTIF]]* shall form an integral part of the prospectus and shall be annexed thereto.

The documents referred to in the first subparagraph shall not be required to be annexed to the prospectus where the investor is informed that, upon request, the investor shall be sent those documents or be apprised of the place where, in each Member State in which the units or shares are marketed, the investor may consult them.
## 3.
The prospectus shall specify the manner in which the annual report shall be available to investors. It shall provide that a paper copy of the annual report shall be delivered to *[[2015R0760_EN.2#(3)|retail investors]]* upon request and free of charge.
## 4.
The prospectus and the latest published annual report shall be provided to investors upon request and free of charge.

The prospectus may be provided in a durable medium or by means of a website. A paper copy shall be delivered to *[[2015R0760_EN.2#(3)|retail investors]]* upon request and free of charge.
## 5.
The essential elements of the prospectus shall be kept up to date.