---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MIFIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: Transpa data
texte: 2025R1156
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014R0600
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2025R1156_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2025R1156_FR.2]]. Back to [[2014R0600_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2025/1156/oj).
>
> [[2025R1156_EN.1|Article 1 – Definitions]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2025R1156_EN.3|Article 3 – Principles in setting a reasonable margin for market data]]
>

# Article 2 - Total costs

## 1.
Market data providers shall calculate the total costs sustained over an accounting year. The calculation of the total costs shall include the following cost categories:
### (a)
infrastructure costs attributable to physical assets, software licenses and leased services, or any other infrastructure necessary for the production and dissemination of market data;
### (b)
connectivity costs attributable to any physical assets, software licenses and leased services which ensure the connectivity necessary for the production and dissemination of market data;
### (c)
costs attributable to personnel dedicated to the production and dissemination of market data;
### (d)
financial costs, including depreciation, amortization, and cost of capital financing market data services;
### (e)
other costs, including administrative costs necessary for the production and dissemination of market data.
## 2.
Infrastructure costs which are shared with other services not directly related to the production and dissemination of market data shall be apportioned considering the usage of the relevant infrastructure by each service.
## 3.
Connectivity costs which are shared with other services not directly related to the production and dissemination of market data shall be apportioned considering the usage of the relevant connectivity framework by each service.
## 4.
Costs attributable to personnel partially dedicated to the production and dissemination of market data shall be allocated considering how much of that personnel’s working activity is related to the production and dissemination of market data.
## 5.
Financial costs resulting from infrastructure, connectivity and personnel which are shared with other services not directly related to the production and dissemination of market data shall be apportioned considering the usage of the relevant assets and services.
## 6.
Market data providers shall be able to specify any other costs which they attribute to the production and dissemination of market data and provide a reasoning for the inclusion of such costs.
## 7.
Market data providers shall review on a yearly basis the methodology used for the apportioning of costs referred to in paragraphs 2 to 6.