---
surnom_texte_lvl1: UCITS
surnom_texte_lvl2: DAC 22(2-5)
texte: 2016R0438
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2009L0065
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2016R0438_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2016R0438_FR.3]]. Back to [[2009L0065_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02016R0438-20200401).
>
> [[2016R0438_EN.2|Article 2 – Contract for the appointment of a depositary]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2016R0438_EN.4|Article 4 – Duties regarding subscription and redemptions]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2009L0065_EN.22a]], [[2009L0065_EN.22]]# Article 3 - Oversight duties — general requirements

## 1.
At the time of its appointment, a depositary shall assess the risks associated with the nature, scale and complexity of the investment policy and strategy of the UCITS' and with the organisation of the management company or the investment company. On the basis of that assessment, the depositary shall devise oversight procedures which are appropriate to the UCITS and the assets in which it invests and which are then implemented and applied. Those procedures shall be regularly updated.
## 2.
In performing its oversight duties under Article 22(3) of Directive 2009/65/EC, a depositary shall perform

ex post

controls and verifications of processes and procedures that are under the responsibility of the management company or the investment company or an appointed third party. The depositary shall in all circumstances ensure that an appropriate verification and reconciliation procedure exists which is implemented and applied and frequently reviewed. The management company or the investment company shall ensure that all instructions related to the UCITS' assets and operations are sent to the depositary, so that the depositary is able to perform its own verification or reconciliation procedure.
## 3.
A depositary shall establish a clear and comprehensive escalation procedure to deal with situations where potential discrepancies are detected in the course of its oversight duties, the details of which shall be made available to the competent authorities of the management company or the investment company upon request.
## 4.
The management company or the investment company shall provide the depositary, upon commencement of its duties and on an ongoing basis thereafter, with all the relevant information it needs in order to comply with its obligations pursuant to Article 22(3) of Directive 2009/65/EC including information to be provided to the depositary by third parties.

The management company or the investment company shall particularly ensure that the depositary is able to have access to the books and perform on-site visits on premises of the management company or the investment company and of any service provider appointed by the management company or the investment company, or to review reports and statements of recognised external certifications by qualified independent auditors or other experts in order to ensure the adequacy and relevance of the procedures in place.