---
surnom_texte_lvl1: ESMAR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2010R1095
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2010R1095
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2010R1095_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2010R1095_FR.16]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02010R1095-20251110).
>
> [[2010R1095_EN.15|Article 15 – Implementing technical standards]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2010R1095_EN.16a|Article 16a – Opinions]]
>



# Article 16 - Guidelines and recommendations

## 1.
The Authority shall, with a view to establishing consistent, efficient and effective supervisory practices within the ESFS, and to ensuring the common, uniform and consistent application of Union law, issue guidelines addressed to all *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(3)|competent authorities]]* or all *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(1)|financial market participants]]* and issue recommendations to one or more *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(3)|competent authorities]]* or to one or more *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(1)|financial market participants]]*.

Guidelines and recommendations shall be in accordance with the empowerments conferred in the legislative acts referred to in [[2010R1095_EN.1#2|Article 1(2)]] or in this Article.
## 2.
The Authority shall, where appropriate, conduct open public consultations regarding the guidelines and recommendations which it issues and analyse the related potential costs and benefits of issuing such guidelines and recommendations. Those consultations and analyses shall be proportionate in relation to the scope, nature and impact of the guidelines or recommendations. The Authority shall, where appropriate, also request advice from the Securities and Markets Stakeholder Group referred to in [[2010R1095_EN.37|Article 37]]. Where the Authority does not conduct open public consultations or does not request advice from the Securities and Markets Stakeholder Group, the Authority shall provide reasons.
## 2a.
Guidelines and recommendations shall not merely refer to, or reproduce, elements of legislative acts. Before issuing a new guideline or recommendation, the Authority shall first review existing guidelines and recommendations, in order to avoid any duplication.
## 3.
The *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(3)|competent authorities]]* and *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(1)|financial market participants]]* shall make every effort to comply with those guidelines and recommendations.

Within 2 months of the issuance of a guideline or recommendation, each competent authority shall confirm whether it complies or intends to comply with that guideline or recommendation. In the event that a competent authority does not comply or does not intend to comply, it shall inform the Authority, stating its reasons.

The Authority shall publish the fact that a competent authority does not comply or does not intend to comply with that guideline or recommendation. The Authority may also decide, on a case by case basis, to publish the reasons provided by the competent authority for not complying with that guideline or recommendation. The competent authority shall receive advanced notice of such publication.

If required by that guideline or recommendation, *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(1)|financial market participants]]* shall report, in a clear and detailed way, whether they comply with that guideline or recommendation.
## 4.
In the report referred to in [[2010R1095_EN.43#5|Article 43(5)]], the Authority shall inform the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission of the guidelines and recommendations that have been issued.