---
surnom_texte_lvl1: ESMAR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2010R1095
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2010R1095
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2010R1095_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2010R1095_FR.48]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02010R1095-20251110).
>
> [[2010R1095_EN.47|Article 47 – Tasks]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2010R1095_EN.49|Article 49 – Independence of the Chairperson]]
>

# Article 48 - Appointment and tasks

## 1.
The Authority shall be represented by a Chairperson, who shall be a full-time independent professional.

The Chairperson shall be responsible for preparing the work of the Board of Supervisors, including setting the agenda to be adopted by the Board of Supervisors, convening the meetings and tabling items for decision, and shall chair the meetings of the Board of Supervisors.

The Chairperson shall be responsible for setting the agenda of the Management Board, to be adopted by the Management Board, and shall chair the meetings of the Management Board.

The Chairperson may invite the Management Board to consider setting up a coordination group in accordance with [[2010R1095_EN.45b|Article 45b]].
## 2.
The Chairperson shall be selected on the basis of merit, skills, knowledge of *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(1)|financial market participants]]* and of markets, and of experience relevant to financial supervision and regulation, following an open selection procedure which shall respect the principle of gender balance and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union . The Board of Supervisors shall draw up a shortlist of qualified candidates for the position of the Chairperson, with the assistance of the Commission. Based on the shortlist the Council shall adopt a decision to appoint the Chairperson, after confirmation by the European Parliament.

Where the Chairperson no longer fulfils the conditions referred to in [[2010R1095_EN.49|Article 49]] or has been found guilty of serious misconduct, the Council may, acting on a proposal from the Commission which has been approved by the European Parliament, adopt a decision to remove him or her from office.

The Board of Supervisors shall also elect, from among its members, a Vice-Chairperson who shall carry out the functions of the Chairperson in the absence of the Chairperson. That Vice-Chairperson shall not be elected from among the members of the Management Board.
## 3.
The Chairperson’s term of office shall be 5 years and may be extended once.
## 4.
In the course of the 9 months preceding the end of the five-year term of office of the Chairperson, the Board of Supervisors shall evaluate:
### (a)
the results achieved in the first term of office and the way they were achieved;
### (b)
the Authority’s duties and requirements in the coming years.

For the purpose of the evaluation referred to in the first subparagraph, the tasks of the Chairperson shall be carried out by the Vice-Chairperson.

The Council, acting on a proposal from the Board of Supervisors and with the assistance of the Commission, and taking into account the evaluation referred to in the first subparagraph, may extend the term of office of the Chairperson once.
## 5.
The Chairperson may be removed from office only on serious grounds. He or she may only be removed by the European Parliament following a decision of the Council, adopted after consulting the Board of Supervisors.