---
surnom_texte_lvl1: ESMAR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2010R1095
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2010R1095
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2010R1095_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2010R1095_FR.58]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02010R1095-20251110).
>
> [[2010R1095_EN.57|Article 57 – Sub-Committees]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2010R1095_EN.59|Article 59 – Independence and impartiality]]
>



# Article 58 - Composition and operation

## 1.
The Board of Appeal of the European Supervisory Authorities is hereby established.
## 2.
The Board of Appeal shall be composed of six members and six alternates, who shall be individuals of high repute with a proven record of relevant knowledge of Union law and of having international professional experience, to a sufficiently high level in the fields of banking, insurance, occupational pensions, securities markets or other financial services, excluding current staff of the *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(3)|competent authorities]]* or other national or Union institutions or bodies involved in the activities of the Authority and members of the Securities and Markets Stakeholder Group. Members and alternates shall be nationals of a Member State and shall have a thorough knowledge of at least two official languages of the Union. The Board of Appeal shall have sufficient legal expertise to provide expert legal advice on the legality, including proportionality, of the Authority’s exercise of its powers.

The Board of Appeal shall designate its President.
## 3.
Two members of the Board of Appeal and two alternates shall be appointed by the Management Board of the Authority from a shortlist proposed by the Commission, following a public call for expressions of interest published in the Official Journal of the European Union , and after consultation of the Board of Supervisors.

After having received the shortlist, the European Parliament may invite candidates for members and alternates to make a statement before it and answer any questions from its Members.

The European Parliament may invite the members of the Board of Appeal to make a statement before it and answer any questions from its Members whenever so requested, to the exclusion of statements, questions or answers pertaining to individual cases decided by, or pending before, the Board of Appeal.
## 4.
The term of office of the members of the Board of Appeal shall be 5 years. That term may be extended once.
## 5.
A member of the Board of Appeal appointed by the Management Board of the Authority shall not be removed during his term of office, unless he has been found guilty of serious misconduct and the Management Board takes a decision to that effect after consulting the Board of Supervisors.
## 6.
The decisions of the Board of Appeal shall be adopted on the basis of a majority of at least four of its six members. Where the appealed decision falls within the scope of this Regulation, the deciding majority shall include at least one of the two members of the Board of Appeal appointed by the Authority.
## 7.
The Board of Appeal shall be convened by its President when necessary.
## 8.
The ESAs shall ensure adequate operational and secretarial support for the Board of Appeal through the Joint Committee.