---
surnom_texte_lvl1: ESMAR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2010R1095
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2010R1095
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2010R1095_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2010R1095_FR.40]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02010R1095-20251110).
>
> [[2010R1095_EN.39|Article 39 – Decision-making procedures]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2010R1095_EN.41|Article 41 – Internal committees]]
>



# Article 40 - Composition

## 1.
The Board of Supervisors shall be composed of:
### (a)
the Chairperson;
### (b)
the head of the national public authority competent for the supervision of *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(1)|financial market participants]]* in each Member State, who shall meet in person at least twice a year;
### (c)
one representative of the Commission, who shall be non-voting;
### (d)
one representative of the ESRB, who shall be non-voting;
### (e)
one representative of each of the other two European Supervisory Authorities who shall be non-voting;
## 2.
The Board of Supervisors shall convene meetings with the Securities and Markets Stakeholder Group regularly, at least twice a year.
## 3.
Each competent authority shall be responsible for nominating a high-level alternate from its authority, who may replace the member of the Board of Supervisors referred to in paragraph 1(b), where that person is prevented from attending.
## 4.
In Member States where more than one authority is responsible for the supervision according to this Regulation, those authorities shall agree on a common representative. Nevertheless, when an item to be discussed by the Board of Supervisors does not fall within the competence of the national authority being represented by the member referred to in paragraph 1(b), that member may bring a representative from the relevant national authority, who shall be non-voting.
## 5.
For the purpose of acting within the scope of Directive 97/9/EC, the member of the Board of Supervisors referred to in paragraph 1(b) may, where appropriate, be accompanied by a representative from the relevant bodies which administer investor compensation schemes in each Member State, who shall be non-voting.

For the purpose of acting within the scope of Regulation (EU) 2021/23, the member of the Board of Supervisors referred to in point (b) of paragraph 1 may, where appropriate, be accompanied by a representative from the resolution authority in each Member State, who shall be non-voting.
## 6.
The Board of Supervisors may decide to admit observers. In particular, the Board of Supervisors shall admit a representative of the Authority for Anti-Money Laundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism established by Regulation (EU) 2024/1620 of the European Parliament and of the Council where matters that fall under its mandate are discussed or decided upon.
The Executive Director may participate in meetings of the Board of Supervisors without the right to vote.
## 7.
Where the national public authority referred to in point (b) of paragraph 1 is not responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection rules, the member of the Board of Supervisors referred to in that point may decide to invite a representative from the Member State’s consumer protection authority, who shall be non-voting. In the case where the responsibility for consumer protection is shared by several authorities in a Member State, those authorities shall agree on a common representative.