---
surnom_texte_lvl1: ESMAR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2010R1095
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2010R1095
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2010R1095_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2010R1095_FR.37]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02010R1095-20251110).
>
> [[2010R1095_EN.36|Article 36 – Relationship with the ESRB]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2010R1095_EN.38|Article 38 – Safeguards]]
>

# Article 37 - Securities and Markets Stakeholder Group

## 1.
To help facilitate consultation with stakeholders in areas relevant to the tasks of the Authority, a Securities and Markets Stakeholder Group shall be established. The Securities and Markets Stakeholder Group shall be consulted on actions taken in accordance with Articles [[2010R1095_EN.10|10]] to 15 concerning *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|regulatory technical standards]]* and *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standards]]* and, to the extent that these do not concern individual *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(1)|financial market participants]]*, [[2010R1095_EN.16|Article 16]] concerning guidelines and recommendations. If actions must be taken urgently and consultation becomes impossible, the Securities and Markets Stakeholder Group shall be informed as soon as possible.

The Securities and Markets Stakeholder Group shall meet at least four times a year.
## 2.
The Securities and Markets Stakeholder Group shall be composed of 30 members. Those members shall comprise of:
### (a)
13 members representing, in balanced proportions, *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(1)|financial market participants]]* operating in the Union;
### (b)
13 members representing employees’ representatives of *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(1)|financial market participants]]* operating in the Union, consumers, users of financial services and representatives of SMEs; and
### (c)
four members who are independent top-ranking academics.
## 3.
The members of the Securities and Markets Stakeholder Group shall be appointed by the Board of Supervisors, following an open and transparent selection procedure. In making its decision, the Board of Supervisors shall, to the extent possible, ensure an appropriate reflection of diversity of the securities and markets sector, geographical and gender balance and representation of stakeholders across the Union. Members of the Securities and Markets Stakeholder Group shall be selected according to their qualifications, skills, relevant knowledge and proven expertise.
## 3a.
Members of the Securities and Markets Stakeholder Group shall elect a Chair from among its members. The position of Chair shall be held for a period of two years.

The European Parliament may invite the Chair of the Securities and Markets Stakeholder Group to make a statement before it and answer any questions from its members whenever so requested.
## 4.
The Authority shall provide all necessary information, subject to professional secrecy, as set out in [[2010R1095_EN.70|Article 70]] of this Regulation, and ensure adequate secretarial support for the Securities and Markets Stakeholder Group. Adequate compensation shall be provided to members of the Securities and Markets Stakeholder Group representing non-profit organisations, excluding industry representatives. This compensation shall take into account the members’ preparatory and follow-up work and shall be at least equivalent to the reimbursement rates of officials pursuant to Title V, Chapter 1, Section 2 of the Staff Regulations of Officials of the European Union and the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Union, laid down in Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom, ECSC) No 259/68 (the Staff Regulations). The Securities and Markets Stakeholder Group may establish working groups on technical issues. Members of the Securities and Markets Stakeholder Group shall serve for a period of four years, following which a new selection procedure shall take place.
The members of the Securities and Markets Stakeholder Group may serve two successive terms.
## 5.
The Securities and Markets Stakeholder Group may submit advice to the Authority on any issue related to the tasks of the Authority with particular focus on the tasks set out in Articles [[2010R1095_EN.10|10]] to 16, 29, 30 and 32.

Where members of the Securities and Markets Stakeholder Group cannot agree on advice, one third of its members or the members representing one group of stakeholders shall be permitted to issue separate advice.

The Securities and Markets Stakeholder Group, the Banking Stakeholder Group, the Insurance and Reinsurance Stakeholder Group, and the Occupational Pensions Stakeholder Group may issue a joint advice on issues related to the work of the ESAs under [[2010R1095_EN.56|Article 56]] on joint positions and common acts.
## 6.
The Securities and Markets Stakeholder Group shall adopt its rules of procedure by a majority of two-thirds of its members.
## 7.
The Authority shall make public the advice of the Securities and Markets Stakeholder Group, the separate advice of its members, and the results of its consultations as well as information on how advice and results of consultations have been taken into account.