---
surnom_texte_lvl1: ESMAR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2010R1095
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2010R1095
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2010R1095_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2010R1095_FR.17]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02010R1095-20251110).
>
> [[2010R1095_EN.16b|Article 16b – Questions and answers]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2010R1095_EN.17a|Article 17a – Protection of reporting persons]]
>



# Article 17 - Breach of Union law

## 1.
Where a competent authority has not applied the acts referred to in [[2010R1095_EN.1#2|Article 1(2)]], or has applied them in a way which appears to be a breach of Union law, including the *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|regulatory technical standards]]* and *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standards]]* established in accordance with Articles [[2010R1095_EN.10|10]] to 15, in particular by failing to ensure that a *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(1)|financial market participant]]* satisfies the requirements laid down in those acts, the Authority shall act in accordance with the powers set out in paragraphs 2, 3 and 6 of this Article.
## 2.
Upon request from one or more *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(3)|competent authorities]]*, the European Parliament, the Council, the Commission, the Securities and Markets Stakeholder Group, or on its own initiative, including when this is based on well substantiated information from natural or legal persons, and after having informed the competent authority concerned, the Authority shall outline how it intends to proceed with the case and, where appropriate, investigate the alleged breach or non-application of Union law.

Without prejudice to the powers laid down in [[2010R1095_EN.35|Article 35]], the competent authority shall, without delay, provide the Authority with all information which the Authority considers necessary for its investigation, including with regard to how the acts referred to in [[2010R1095_EN.1#2|Article 1(2)]] are applied in accordance with Union law.

Without prejudice to the powers laid down in [[2010R1095_EN.35|Article 35]], the Authority may, after having informed the competent authority concerned, address a duly justified and reasoned request for information directly to other *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(3)|competent authorities]]* whenever requesting information from the competent authority concerned has proven, or is deemed to be, insufficient to obtain the information that is deemed necessary for the purpose of investigating an alleged breach or non-application of Union law.

The addressee of such a request shall provide the Authority with clear, accurate and complete information without undue delay.
## 2a.
Without prejudice to powers under this Regulation and before issuing a recommendation as set out in paragraph 3, the Authority shall engage with the competent authority concerned where it considers such engagement appropriate in order to resolve a breach of Union law, in an attempt to reach agreement on actions necessary for the competent authority to comply with Union law.
## 3.
The Authority may, not later than 2 months from initiating its investigation, address a recommendation to the competent authority concerned setting out the action necessary to comply with Union law.

The competent authority shall, within ten working days of receipt of the recommendation, inform the Authority of the steps it has taken or intends to take to ensure compliance with Union law.
## 4.
Where the competent authority has not complied with Union law within 1 month from receipt of the Authority’s recommendation, the Commission may, after having been informed by the Authority or on its own initiative, issue a formal opinion requiring the competent authority to take the action necessary to comply with Union law. The Commission’s formal opinion shall take into account the Authority’s recommendation.

The Commission shall issue such a formal opinion no later than 3 months after the adoption of the recommendation. The Commission may extend this period by 1 month.

The Authority and the *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(3)|competent authorities]]* shall provide the Commission with all necessary information.
## 5.
The competent authority shall, within ten working days of receipt of the formal opinion referred to in paragraph 4, inform the Commission and the Authority of the steps it has taken or intends to take to comply with that formal opinion.
## 6.
Without prejudice to the powers of the Commission pursuant to [[2010R1095_EN.258|Article 258]] TFEU, where a competent authority does not comply with the formal opinion referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article within the period specified therein, and where it is necessary to remedy in a timely manner such non-compliance in order to maintain or restore neutral conditions of competition in the market or ensure the orderly functioning and integrity of the financial system, the Authority may, where the relevant requirements of the legislative acts referred to in [[2010R1095_EN.1#2|Article 1(2)]] of this Regulation are directly applicable to *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(1)|financial market participants]]*, adopt an individual decision addressed to a *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(1)|financial market participant]]* requiring it to take all necessary action to comply with its obligations under Union law including the cessation of any practice.

The decision of the Authority shall be in conformity with the formal opinion issued by the Commission pursuant to paragraph 4.
## 7.
Decisions adopted in accordance with paragraph 6 shall prevail over any previous decision adopted by the *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(3)|competent authorities]]* on the same matter.

When taking action in relation to issues which are subject to a formal opinion pursuant to paragraph 4 or to a decision pursuant to paragraph 6, *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(3)|competent authorities]]* shall comply with the formal opinion or the decision, as the case may be.
## 8.
In the report referred to in [[2010R1095_EN.43#5|Article 43(5)]], the Authority shall set out which *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(3)|competent authorities]]* and *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(1)|financial market participants]]* have not complied with the formal opinions or decisions referred to in paragraphs 4 and 6 of this Article.