---
surnom_texte_lvl1: ESMAR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2010R1095
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2010R1095
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2010R1095_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2010R1095_FR.45]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32010R1095).
>
> [[2010R1095_EN.44|Article 44 – Decision making]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2010R1095_EN.46|Article 46 – Independence]]
>

# Article 45 - Composition

## 1.
The Management Board shall be composed of the Chairperson and six other members of the Board of Supervisors, elected by and from the voting members of the Board of Supervisors.
Other than the Chairperson, each member of the Management Board shall have an alternate, who may replace him if he is prevented from attending.

The term of office of the members elected by the Board of Supervisors shall be two-and-a-half years. That term may be extended once. The composition of the Management Board shall be balanced and proportionate and shall reflect the Union as a whole. Mandates shall be overlapping and an appropriate rotating arrangement shall apply.
## 2.
Decisions by the Management Board shall be adopted on the basis of a majority of the members present. Each member shall have one vote.
The Executive Director and a representative of the Commission shall participate in meetings of the Management Board without the right to vote.

The representative of the Commission shall have the right to vote on matters referred to in [[2010R1095_EN.63|Article 63]].

The Management Board shall adopt and make public its rules of procedure.
## 3.
Meetings of the Management Board shall be convened by the Chairperson at his own initiative or at the request of at least a third of its members, and shall be chaired by the Chairperson.
The Management Board shall meet prior to every meeting of the Board of Supervisors and as often as the Management Board deems necessary. It shall meet at least five times a year.
## 4.
The members of the Management Board may, subject to the rules of procedure, be assisted by advisers or experts. The non-voting members, with the exception of the Executive Director, shall not attend any discussions within the Management Board relating to individual *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(1)|financial market participants]]*.