---
surnom_texte_lvl1: ESMAR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2010R1095
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2010R1095
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2010R1095_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2010R1095_FR.43]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02010R1095-20251110).
>
> [[2010R1095_EN.42|Article 42 – Independence of the Board of Supervisors]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2010R1095_EN.43a|Article 43a – Transparency of decisions adopted by the Board of Supervisors]]
>



# Article 43 - Tasks

## 1.
The Board of Supervisors shall give guidance to the work of the Authority and shall be in charge of taking the decisions referred to in Chapter II. The Board of Supervisors shall adopt the opinions, recommendations, guidelines and decisions of the Authority, and issue the advice referred to in Chapter II, based on a proposal of the relevant internal committee or panel, the Chairperson, or of the Management Board, as applicable.

—————
## 4.
The Board of Supervisors shall adopt, before 30 September of each year, on the basis of a proposal by the Management Board, the work programme of the Authority for the coming year, and shall transmit it for information to the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission.

The work programme shall be adopted without prejudice to the annual budgetary procedure and shall be made public.
## 5.
The Board of Supervisors shall adopt, on the basis of a proposal by the Management Board, the annual report on the activities of the Authority, including on the performance of the Chairperson’s duties, and shall transmit that report to the European Parliament, to the Council, to the Commission, to the Court of Auditors and to the European Economic and Social Committee by 15 June each year. The report shall be made public.
## 6.
The Board of Supervisors shall adopt the multi-annual work programme of the Authority, and shall transmit it for information to the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission.

The multi-annual work programme shall be adopted without prejudice to the annual budgetary procedure and shall be made public.
## 7.
The Board of Supervisors shall adopt the budget in accordance with [[2010R1095_EN.63|Article 63]].
## 8.
The Board of Supervisors shall exercise disciplinary authority over the Chairperson and the Executive Director. It may remove the Executive Director from office in accordance with [[2010R1095_EN.51#5|Article 51(5)]].