---
surnom_texte_lvl1: ESMAR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2010R1095
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2010R1095
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2010R1095_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2010R1095_FR.45 ter]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02010R1095-20251110).
>
> [[2010R1095_EN.45a|Article 45a – Decision-making]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2010R1095_EN.46|Article 46 – Independence of the Management Board]]
>

# Article 45b - Coordination Groups

## 1.
The Management Board may set up coordination groups on its own initiative or upon the request of a competent authority on defined topics for which there may be a need to coordinate having regard to specific market developments. The Management Board shall set up coordination groups on defined topics at the request of five members of the Board of Supervisors.
## 2.
All *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(3)|competent authorities]]* shall participate in the coordination groups and shall provide, in accordance with [[2010R1095_EN.35|Article 35]], to the coordination groups the information necessary in order to allow the coordination groups to conduct their coordinating tasks in accordance with their mandate. The work of the coordination groups shall be based on information provided by the *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(3)|competent authorities]]* and any findings identified by the Authority.
## 3.
The groups shall be chaired by a member of the Management Board. Each year, the respective member of the Management Board in charge of the coordination group shall report to the Board of Supervisors on the main elements of the discussions and findings and, where relevant, make a suggestion for a regulatory follow-up or a peer review in the respective area. *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(3)|Competent authorities]]* shall notify the Authority as to how they have taken into account the work of coordination groups in their activities.
## 4.
When monitoring market developments that may be the focus of coordination groups, the Authority may request *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(3)|competent authorities]]* in accordance with [[2010R1095_EN.35|Article 35]] to provide information necessary to allow the Authority to perform its monitoring role.