---
surnom_texte_lvl1: ESMAR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2010R1095
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2010R1095
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2010R1095_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2010R1095_FR.36]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02010R1095-20251110).
>
> [[2010R1095_EN.35b|Article 35b – Integrated reporting system]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2010R1095_EN.37|Article 37 – Securities and Markets Stakeholder Group]]
>

# Article 36 - Relationship with the ESRB

## 1.
The Authority shall cooperate closely and on a regular basis with the ESRB.
## 2.
The Authority shall provide the ESRB with regular and timely information necessary for the achievement of its tasks. Any data necessary for the achievement of its tasks that are not in summary or aggregate form shall be provided, without delay, to the ESRB upon a reasoned request, as specified in [[2010R1092_EN.15|Article 15 of Regulation (EU) No 1092/2010]]. The Authority, in cooperation with the ESRB, shall have in place adequate internal procedures for the transmission of confidential information, in particular information regarding individual *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(1)|financial market participants]]*.

—————
## 4.
On receipt of a warning or recommendation from the ESRB addressed to the Authority, the Authority shall discuss that warning or recommendation at the next meeting of the Board of Supervisors or, where appropriate, earlier, in order to assess the implications of, and possible follow-up to, such a warning or recommendation for the fulfilment of its tasks.

It shall decide, by the relevant decision-making procedure, on any actions to be taken in accordance with the powers conferred upon it by this Regulation for addressing the issues identified in the warnings and recommendations.

If the Authority does not act on a warning or recommendation, it shall explain to the ESRB its reasons for not doing so. The ESRB shall inform the European Parliament thereof in accordance with [[2010R1092_EN.19#5|Article 19(5) of Regulation (EU) No 1092/2010]]. The ESRB shall also inform the Council thereof.
## 5.
On receipt of a warning or recommendation from the ESRB addressed to a competent authority, the Authority shall, where relevant, use the powers conferred upon it by this Regulation to ensure a timely follow-up.

Where the addressee intends not to follow the recommendation of the ESRB, it shall inform and discuss with the Board of Supervisors its reasons for not acting.

Where the competent authority, in accordance with [[2010R1092_EN.17#1|Article 17(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1092/2010]], informs the European Parliament, the Council, the Commission and the ESRB of the actions it has undertaken in response to a recommendation of the ESRB, it shall take due account of the views of the Board of Supervisors.

—————