---
surnom_texte_lvl1: ESMAR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2010R1095
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2010R1095
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2010R1095_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2010R1095_FR.28]]. Open the [[CELEX_32010R1095_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32010R1095).
>
> [[2010R1095_EN.27|Article 27 – European system of resolution and funding arrangements]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2010R1095_EN.29|Article 29 – Common supervisory culture]]
>



# Article 28 - Delegation of tasks and responsibilities

## 1.
*[[2010R1095_EN.4#(3)|Competent authorities]]* may, with the consent of the delegate, delegate tasks and responsibilities to the Authority or other *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(3)|competent authorities]]* subject to the conditions set out in this Article. Member States may set out specific arrangements regarding the delegation of responsibilities that have to be complied with before their *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(3)|competent authorities]]* enter into such delegation agreements, and may limit the scope of delegation to what is necessary for the effective supervision of cross-border *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(1)|financial market participants]]* or groups.
## 2.
The Authority shall stimulate and facilitate the delegation of tasks and responsibilities between *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(3)|competent authorities]]* by identifying those tasks and responsibilities that can be delegated or jointly exercised and by promoting best practices.
## 3.
The delegation of responsibilities shall result in the reallocation of competences laid down in the acts referred to in [[2010R1095_EN.1#2|Article 1(2)]]. The law of the delegate authority shall govern the procedure, enforcement and administrative and judicial review relating to the delegated responsibilities.
## 4.
The *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(3)|competent authorities]]* shall inform the Authority of delegation agreements into which they intend to enter. They shall put the agreements into effect at the earliest 1 month after informing the Authority.
The Authority may give an opinion on the intended agreement within 1 month of being informed.

The Authority shall publish, by appropriate means, any delegation agreement as concluded by the *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(3)|competent authorities]]*, in order to ensure that all parties concerned are informed appropriately.