---
surnom_texte_lvl1: ESMAR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2010R1095
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2010R1095
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2010R1095_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2010R1095_FR.22]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02010R1095-20251110).
>
> [[2010R1095_EN.21|Article 21 – Colleges of supervisors]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2010R1095_EN.23|Article 23 – Identification and measurement of systemic risk]]
>



# Article 22 - General provisions on systemic risk


General provisions on systemic risk
## 1.
The Authority shall duly consider systemic risk as defined by Regulation (EU) No 1092/2010. It shall address any risk of disruption in financial services that:
### (a)
is caused by an impairment of all or parts of the financial system; and
### (b)
has the potential to have serious negative consequences for internal market and the real economy.

The Authority shall consider, where appropriate, the monitoring and assessment of systemic risk as developed by the ESRB and the Authority and respond to warnings and recommendations by the ESRB in accordance with [[2010R1092_EN.17|Article 17 of Regulation (EU) No 1092/2010]].
## 2.
The Authority shall, in collaboration with the ESRB, and in accordance with [[2010R1095_EN.23|Article 23]] develop a common approach for the identification and measurement of systemic risk posed by *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(2)|key financial market participants]]*, including quantitative and qualitative indicators as appropriate.

Those indicators shall be a critical element in the determination of appropriate supervisory actions. The Authority shall monitor the degree of convergence in the determinations made, with a view to promoting a common approach.
## 3.
Without prejudice to the acts referred to in [[2010R1095_EN.1#2|Article 1(2)]], the Authority shall draw up, as necessary, additional guidelines and recommendations for *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(2)|key financial market participants]]*, to take account of the systemic risk posed by them.

The Authority shall ensure that the systemic risk posed by *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(2)|key financial market participants]]* is taken into account when developing draft regulatory and *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standards]]* in the areas laid down in the legislative acts referred to in [[2010R1095_EN.1#2|Article 1(2)]].
## 4.
Upon request from one or more *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(3)|competent authorities]]*, the European Parliament, the Council or the Commission, or on its own initiative, the Authority may conduct an inquiry into a particular type of financial activity or type of product or type of conduct in order to assess potential threats to the integrity of the financial markets or the stability of the financial system or to the protection of customers or investors.

Following an inquiry conducted pursuant to the first subparagraph, the Board of Supervisors may make appropriate recommendations for action to the *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(3)|competent authorities]]* concerned.

For those purposes, the Authority may use the powers conferred on it under this Regulation, including [[2010R1095_EN.35|Article 35]].
## 5.
The Joint Committee shall ensure overall and cross-sectoral coordination of the activities carried out in accordance with this Article.