---
surnom_texte_lvl1: ESMAR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2010R1095
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2010R1095
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2010R1095_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2010R1095_FR.15]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02010R1095-20251110).
>
> [[2010R1095_EN.14|Article 14 – Non-endorsement or amendment of draft regulatory technical standards]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2010R1095_EN.16|Article 16 – Guidelines and recommendations]]
>

# Article 15 - Implementing technical standards

## 1.
Where the European Parliament and the Council confer implementing powers on the Commission to adopt *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standards]]* by means of implementing acts pursuant to [[2010R1095_EN.291|Article 291]] TFEU, in the areas specifically set out in the legislative acts referred to in [[2010R1095_EN.1#2|Article 1(2)]] of this Regulation, the Authority may develop draft *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standards]]*. *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|Implementing technical standards]]* shall be technical, shall not imply strategic decisions or policy choices and their content shall be to determine the conditions of application of those acts. The Authority shall submit its draft *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standards]]* to the Commission for adoption. At the same time, the Authority shall forward those technical standards for information to the European Parliament and to the Council.

Before submitting draft *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standards]]* to the Commission, the Authority shall conduct open public consultations and shall analyse the potential related costs and benefits, unless such consultations and analyses are highly disproportionate in relation to the scope and impact of the draft *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standards]]* concerned or in relation to the particular urgency of the matter. The Authority shall also request the advice of the Securities and Markets Stakeholder Group referred to in [[2010R1095_EN.37|Article 37]].

Within three months of receipt of a draft *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standard]]*, the Commission shall decide whether to adopt it. The Commission may extend that period by one month. The Commission shall inform the European Parliament and the Council in due time where the adoption cannot take place within the three-month period. The Commission may adopt the draft *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standard]]* in part only, or with amendments, where the Union’s interests so require.

Where the Commission intends not to adopt a draft *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standard]]* or intends to adopt it in part or with amendments, it shall send it back to the Authority explaining why it does not intend to adopt it or explaining the reasons for its amendments. The Commission shall send a copy of its letter to the European Parliament and to the Council. Within a period of six weeks, the Authority may amend the draft *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standard]]* on the basis of the Commission’s proposed amendments and resubmit it in the form of a formal opinion to the Commission. The Authority shall send a copy of its formal opinion to the European Parliament and to the Council.

If, on the expiry of the six-week period referred to in the fourth subparagraph, the Authority has not submitted an amended draft *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standard]]*, or has submitted a draft *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standard]]* that is not amended in a way consistent with the Commission’s proposed amendments, the Commission may adopt the *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standard]]* with the amendments it considers relevant or reject it.

The Commission shall not change the content of a draft *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standard]]* prepared by the Authority without prior coordination with the Authority, as set out in this Article.
## 2.
Where the Authority has not submitted a draft *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standard]]* within the time limit set out in the legislative acts referred to in [[2010R1095_EN.1#2|Article 1(2)]], the Commission may request such a draft within a new time limit. The Authority shall inform the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, in due time, that it will not comply with the new time limit.
## 3.
Only where the Authority does not submit a draft *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standard]]* to the Commission within the time limits in accordance with paragraph 2, may the Commission adopt an *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standard]]* by means of an implementing act without a draft from the Authority.

The Commission shall conduct open public consultations on draft *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standards]]* and analyse the potential related costs and benefits, unless such consultations and analyses are disproportionate in relation to the scope and impact of the draft *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standards]]* concerned or in relation to the particular urgency of the matter. The Commission shall also request the advice of the Securities and Markets Stakeholder Group referred to in [[2010R1095_EN.37|Article 37]].

The Commission shall immediately forward the draft *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standard]]* to the European Parliament and the Council.

The Commission shall send the draft *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standard]]* to the Authority. Within a period of 6 weeks, the Authority may amend the draft *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standard]]* and submit it in the form of a formal opinion to the Commission. The Authority shall send a copy of its formal opinion to the European Parliament and to the Council.

If, on the expiry of the six-week period referred to in the fourth subparagraph, the Authority has not submitted an amended draft *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standard]]*, the Commission may adopt the *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standard]]*.

If the Authority has submitted an amended draft *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standard]]* within that six-week period, the Commission may amend the draft *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standard]]* on the basis of the Authority’s proposed amendments or adopt the *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standard]]* with the amendments it considers relevant.

The Commission shall not change the content of the draft *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standards]]* prepared by the Authority without prior coordination with the Authority, as set out in this Article.
## 4.
The *[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standards]]* shall be adopted by means of regulations or decisions. The words ‘*[[2010R1095_EN.4#4.|implementing technical standard]]*’ shall appear in the title of such regulations or decisions. Those standards shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall enter into force on the date stated therein.