---
surnom_texte_lvl1: ESMAR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2010R1095
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2010R1095
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2010R1095_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2010R1095_FR.3]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02010R1095-20251110).
>
> [[2010R1095_EN.2|Article 2 – European System of Financial Supervision]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2010R1095_EN.4|Article 4 – Definitions]]
>

# Article 3 - Accountability of the Authorities

## 1.
The Authorities referred to in points (a) to (d) of [[2010R1095_EN.2#2|Article 2(2)]] shall be accountable to the European Parliament and to the Council.
## 2.
In accordance with [[2010R1095_EN.226|Article 226]] TFEU, the Authority shall fully cooperate with the European Parliament during any investigation carried out under that Article.
## 3.
The Board of Supervisors shall adopt an annual report on the activities of the Authority, including on the performance of the Chairperson’s duties, and shall, by 15 June each year, transmit that report to the European Parliament, to the Council, to the Commission, to the Court of Auditors and to the European Economic and Social Committee. The report shall be made public.
## 4.
At the request of the European Parliament, the Chairperson shall participate in a hearing before the European Parliament on the performance of the Authority. A hearing shall take place at least annually. The Chairperson shall make a statement before the European Parliament and answer any questions from its members, whenever so requested.
## 5.
The Chairperson shall report in writing on the activities of the Authority to the European Parliament when requested and at least 15 days before making the statement referred to in paragraph 4.
## 6.
In addition to the information referred to in Articles [[2010R1095_EN.11|11]] to 18 and Articles [[2010R1095_EN.20|20]] and [[2010R1095_EN.33|33]], the report shall also include any relevant information requested by the European Parliament on an ad hoc basis.
## 7.
The Authority shall reply orally or in writing to any question addressed to it by the European Parliament or by the Council within five weeks of its receipt.
## 8.
Upon request, the Chairperson shall hold confidential oral discussions behind closed doors with the Chair, Vice-Chairs and Coordinators of the competent committee of the European Parliament. All participants shall respect the requirements of professional secrecy.
## 9.
Without prejudice to its confidentiality obligations stemming from participation in international fora, the Authority shall inform the European Parliament upon request about its contribution to a united, common, consistent and effective representation of the Union’s interests in such international fora.