---
surnom_texte_lvl1: ESMAR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2010R1095
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2010R1095
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2010R1095_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2010R1095_FR.44]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02010R1095-20251110).
>
> [[2010R1095_EN.43a|Article 43a – Transparency of decisions adopted by the Board of Supervisors]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2010R1095_EN.45|Article 45 – Composition]]
>

# Article 44 - Decision making

## 1.
Decisions of the Board of Supervisors shall be taken by a simple majority of its members. Each voting member shall have one vote.

With regard to the acts specified in Articles [[2010R1095_EN.10|10]] to 16 of this Regulation and measures and decisions adopted under the third subparagraph of [[2010R1095_EN.9#5|Article 9(5)]] of this Regulation, and Chapter VI of this Regulation and, by way of derogation from the first subparagraph of this paragraph, the Board of Supervisors shall take decisions on the basis of a qualified majority of its members, as defined in [[2010R1095_EN.16#4|Article 16(4)]] TEU and in Article 3 of the Protocol No 36 on transitional provisions

The Chairperson shall not vote on the decisions referred to in the second subparagraph.

With regard to the composition of the panels in accordance with [[2010R1095_EN.41#2|Article 41(2)]], (3) and (4), and the members of the peer review committee referred to in [[2010R1095_EN.30#2|Article 30(2)]], the Board of Supervisors, when considering the proposals by the Chairperson, shall strive for consensus. In the absence of consensus, decisions of the Board of Supervisors shall be taken by a majority of three quarters of its voting members. Each voting member shall have one vote.

With regard to decisions adopted under [[2010R1095_EN.18#3|Article 18(3)]] and (4), and by way of derogation from the first subparagraph of this paragraph, the Board of Supervisors shall take decisions on the basis of a simple majority of its voting members.
## 2.
Meetings of the Board of Supervisors shall be convened by the Chairperson at his own initiative or at the request of one third of its members, and shall be chaired by the Chairperson.
## 3.
The Board of Supervisors shall adopt and make public its rules of procedure.
## 4.
With regard to the decisions in accordance with Articles [[2010R1095_EN.17|17]], [[2010R1095_EN.19|19]] and [[2010R1095_EN.30|30]], the Board of Supervisors shall vote on the proposed decisions using a written procedure. The voting members of the Board of Supervisors shall have eight working days to vote. Each voting member shall have one vote. The proposed decision shall be considered adopted unless a simple majority of voting members of the Board of Supervisors objects. Abstentions shall not be counted as approvals or as objections, and shall not be considered when calculating the number of votes cast. If three voting members of the Board of Supervisors object to the written procedure, the draft decision shall be discussed and decided on by the Board of Supervisors in accordance with the procedure set out in paragraph 1 of this Article.

The non-voting members and the observers, with the exception of the Executive Director, shall not attend any discussions within the Board of Supervisors relating to individual *[[2010R1095_EN.4#(1)|financial market participants]]*, unless otherwise provided for in [[2010R1095_EN.75#3|Article 75(3)]] or in the legislative acts referred to in [[2010R1095_EN.1#2|Article 1(2)]].
## 5.
The Authority’s Chairperson shall have the prerogative to call a vote at any time. Without prejudice to that power and to the effectiveness of the Authority’s decision-making procedures, the Board of Supervisors of the Authority shall strive for consensus when taking its decisions.