---
surnom_texte_lvl1: Prospectus
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2017R1129
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2017R1129
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2017R1129_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2017R1129_FR.20]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02017R1129-20241204).
>
> [[2017R1129_EN.19|Article 19 – Incorporation by reference]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2017R1129_EN.21|Article 21 – Publication of the prospectus]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 2 reference(s): [[2019R0980_EN.0]]# Article 20 - Scrutiny and approval of the prospectus

## 1.
A prospectus shall not be published unless the relevant competent authority has approved it, or all of its constituent parts in accordance with [[2017R1129_EN.10|Article 10]].
## 2.
The competent authority shall notify the issuer, the offeror or the person asking for admission to trading on a regulated market of its decision regarding the approval of the prospectus within 10 working days of the submission of the draft prospectus.

Where the competent authority fails to take a decision on the prospectus within the time limits laid down in the first subparagraph of this paragraph and in paragraphs 3, 6 and 6a, that competent authority shall notify the issuer, the offeror or the person asking for admission to trading on a regulated market, and ESMA, of the reasons for failing to take a decision. Such failure shall not be deemed to constitute approval of the application.

Member States shall ensure that appropriate measures are in place to address any failure by competent authorities to comply with the time limits laid down in the first subparagraph of this paragraph and in paragraphs 3, 6 and 6a.

ESMA shall make public on a yearly basis an aggregate report on the compliance of competent authorities with the time limits referred to in the first subparagraph of this paragraph and in paragraphs 3, 6 and 6a.

The competent authority shall notify ESMA of the approval of the prospectus and any supplement thereto as soon as possible and in any event by no later than the end of the first working day after that approval is notified to the issuer, the offeror or the person asking for admission to trading on a regulated market.
## 3.
The time limit set out in the first subparagraph of paragraph 2 shall be extended to 20 working days where the offer to the public involves securities issued by an issuer that does not have any securities admitted to trading on a regulated market and that has not previously offered securities to the public.

The time limit of 20 working days shall only be applicable for the initial submission of the draft prospectus. Where subsequent submissions are necessary in accordance with paragraph 4, the time limit set out in the first subparagraph of paragraph 2 shall apply.
## 4.
Where the competent authority finds that the draft prospectus does not meet the standards of completeness, comprehensibility and consistency necessary for its approval and/or that changes or supplementary information are needed:
### (a)
it shall inform the issuer, the offeror or the person asking for admission to trading on a regulated market of that fact promptly and at the latest within the time limits set out in the first subparagraph of paragraph 2 or, as applicable, paragraph 3, as calculated from the submission of the draft prospectus and/or the supplementary information; and
### (b)
it shall clearly specify the changes or supplementary information that are needed.

In such cases, the time limit set out in the first subparagraph of paragraph 2 shall then apply only from the date on which a revised draft prospectus or the supplementary information requested are submitted to the competent authority.
## 5.
Where the issuer, the offeror or the person asking for admission to trading on a regulated market is unable or unwilling to make the necessary changes or to provide the supplementary information requested in accordance with paragraph 4, the competent authority shall be entitled to refuse the approval of the prospectus and terminate the review process. In such case, the competent authority shall notify the issuer, the offeror or the person asking for admission to trading on a regulated market of its decision and indicate the reasons for such refusal.
## 6.
By way of derogation from paragraphs 2 and 4, the time limits set out in the first subparagraph of paragraph 2 and paragraph 4 shall be reduced to five working days for a prospectus consisting of separate documents drawn up by frequent issuers referred to in [[2017R1129_EN.9#11|Article 9(11)]], including frequent issuers using the notification procedure provided for in [[2017R1129_EN.26|Article 26]]. The frequent issuer shall inform the competent authority at least five working days before the date envisaged for the submission of an application for approval.

A frequent issuer shall submit an application to the competent authority containing the necessary amendments to the universal registration document, where applicable, the securities note and the summary submitted for approval.
## 6a.
By way of derogation from paragraphs 2 and 4 of this Article, the time limits set out in paragraph 2, first subparagraph, and in paragraph 4 shall be reduced to seven working days for an EU Follow-on prospectus that is subject to the maximum length referred to in [[2017R1129_EN.14a#5|Article 14a(5)]] and (6). The issuer shall inform the competent authority at least five working days before the date envisaged for the submission of an application for approval.

The reduced time limit set out in the first subparagraph of this paragraph shall not apply to an EU Follow-on prospectus drawn up by issuers as referred to in [[2017R1129_EN.14a#1|Article 14a(1)]], point (c).
## 7.
Competent authorities shall provide on their websites guidance on the scrutiny and approval process in order to facilitate efficient and timely approval of prospectuses. Such guidance shall include contact details for the purposes of approvals. The issuer, the offeror, the person asking for admission to trading on a regulated market or the person responsible for drawing up the prospectus shall have the possibility to directly communicate and interact with the staff of the competent authority throughout the process of approval of the prospectus.
## 8.
On request of the issuer, the offeror or the person asking for admission to trading on a regulated market, the competent authority of the home Member State may transfer the approval of a prospectus to the competent authority of another Member State, subject to prior notification to ESMA and the agreement of that competent authority. The competent authority of the home Member State shall transfer the documentation filed, together with its decision to grant the transfer, in electronic format, to the competent authority of the other Member State on the date of its decision. Such a transfer shall be notified to the issuer, the offeror or the person asking for admission to trading on a regulated market within three working days from the date of the decision taken by the competent authority of the home Member State. The time limits set out in the first subparagraph of paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 shall apply from the date the decision was taken by the competent authority of the home Member State. [[2010R1095_EN.28#4|Article 28(4) of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010]] shall not apply to the transfer of the approval of the prospectus in accordance with this paragraph. Upon completion of the transfer of the approval, the competent authority to whom the approval of the prospectus has been transferred shall be deemed to be the competent authority of the home Member State for that prospectus for the purposes of this Regulation.
## 9.
This Regulation shall not affect the competent authority’s liability, which shall continue to be governed solely by national law.

Member States shall ensure that their national provisions on the liability of competent authorities apply only to approvals of prospectuses by their competent authority.
## 10.
The level of fees charged by the competent authority of the home Member State for the approval of prospectuses, of documents that are intended to become constituent parts of prospectuses in accordance with [[2017R1129_EN.10|Article 10]] or of supplements to prospectuses as well as for the filing of universal registration documents, amendments thereto and final terms, shall be reasonable and proportionate and shall be disclosed to the public at least on the website of the competent authority.
## 11.
The Commission is empowered to adopt, after consulting with ESMA, delegated acts in accordance with [[2017R1129_EN.44|Article 44]] to supplement this Regulation by specifying the criteria for the scrutiny of prospectuses, in particular the completeness, comprehensibility and consistency of the information contained therein, and the procedures for the approval of the prospectus, and all of the following:
### (a)
the circumstances under which a competent authority is allowed to use additional criteria for the scrutiny of the prospectus, where deemed necessary for investor protection;
### (b)
the circumstances under which a competent authority is allowed, where deemed necessary for investor protection, to require information in addition to that which is required under Articles [[2017R1129_EN.6|6]], [[2017R1129_EN.13|13]] and [[2017R1129_EN.14a|14a]], and 15a for drawing up a prospectus, an EU Follow-on prospectus or an EU Growth issuance prospectus, including the type of any additional information disclosed under the additional criteria referred to in point (a) of this subparagraph;
### (c)
the maximum overall timeframe within which the scrutiny of the prospectus is to be finalised and a decision reached by the competent authority on whether that prospectus is approved or the approval is refused and the review process terminated, and the conditions for possible derogations from that timeframe.

The maximum timeframe referred to in point (c) of the first subparagraph of this paragraph shall take into account point (a) of that subparagraph, the average number of iterations between the issuer, offeror or person asking for admission to trading on a regulated market and the competent authority within the same application for approval of a draft prospectus, and the timeframes laid down in paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 6 and 6a.

Where the competent authority fails to take a decision on the prospectus within the maximum timeframe referred to in point (c) of the first subparagraph of this paragraph, such failure shall not be deemed to constitute approval of the prospectus.
## 12.
ESMA shall use its powers under Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010 to promote supervisory convergence with regard to the scrutiny and approval processes of competent authorities when assessing the completeness, consistency and comprehensibility of the information contained in a prospectus. To that end, ESMA shall develop guidelines addressed to the competent authorities on the supervision and enforcement with regard to prospectuses, covering the examination of compliance with this Regulation and with any delegated and implementing acts adopted pursuant thereto. In particular, ESMA shall foster convergence regarding the efficiency, methods and timing of the scrutiny by the competent authorities of the information given in a prospectus, using in particular the peer reviews pursuant to paragraph 13.

—————