---
surnom_texte_lvl1: Prospectus
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2017R1129
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2017R1129
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
# ANNEX IV - Summary
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2017R1129_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2017R1129_FR.IIII]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02017R1129-20241204).
>
> [[2017R1129_EN.III|Article III – Purpose, persons responsible, third party information, experts’ reports and competent authority approval]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2017R1129_EN.V|Article V – Summary]]
>


## I.
Summary

The EU Follow-on prospectus must include a summary drawn up in accordance with [[2017R1129_EN.7|Article 7]](12a).
## II.
Information about the issuer

Identify the company issuing shares, including its legal entity identifier (LEI), its legal and commercial name, its country of incorporation and the website where investors can find information on the company’s business operations, the products it makes or the services it provides, the principal markets where it competes, its major shareholders, the composition of its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and of its senior management and, where applicable, information incorporated by reference (with a disclaimer that the information on the website does not form part of the prospectus unless that information is incorporated by reference into the EU Follow-on prospectus).
## III.
Responsibility statement and statement on the competent authority

A.

Responsibility statement

Identify the persons responsible for drawing up the EU Follow-on prospectus and include a statement by those persons that, to the best of their knowledge, the information contained in the EU Follow-on prospectus is in accordance with the facts and that the EU Follow-on prospectus makes no omission likely to affect its import.

Where applicable, the statement must contain information sourced from third parties, including the source(s) of that information, and statements or reports attributed to a person as an expert and the following details of that person:
#### (i)
name;
#### (ii)
business address;
#### (iii)
qualifications; and
#### (iv)
material interest (if any) in the issuer.

B.

Statement on the competent authority

The statement shall:
#### (i)
indicate the competent authority that has approved, in accordance with this Regulation, the EU Follow-on prospectus;
#### (ii)
specify that such approval does not constitute an endorsement of the issuer or of the quality of the shares to which the EU Follow-on prospectus relates;
#### (iii)
specify that the competent authority has only approved the EU Follow-on prospectus as meeting the standards of completeness, comprehensibility and consistency imposed by this Regulation; and
#### (iv)
specify that the EU Follow- on prospectus has been drawn up in accordance with [[2017R1129_EN.14a|Article 14a]].
## IV.
Risk factors

A description of the material risks, in a limited number of categories, that are specific to the issuer and a description of the material risks, in a limited number of categories, that are specific to the shares being offered to the public and/or admitted to trading on a regulated market, in a section headed ‘Risk Factors’.

The risks shall be corroborated by the content of the EU Follow-on prospectus.
## V.
Financial information

The financial statements (annual and half-yearly) published over the period of 12 months prior to the approval of the EU Follow-on prospectus. Where both annual and half-yearly financial statements have been published, only the annual statements must be required where they postdate the half-yearly financial statements.
The annual financial statements must be independently audited. The audit report shall be prepared in accordance with Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council (
## 20
).

Where Directive 2006/43/EC and Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 do not apply, the annual financial statements must be audited or reported on as to whether or not, for the purposes of the EU Follow-on prospectus, they give a true and fair view in accordance with auditing standards applicable in a Member State or an equivalent standard. Otherwise, the following information must be included in the EU Follow-on prospectus:
#### (i)
a prominent statement disclosing which auditing standards have been applied;
#### (ii)
an explanation of any significant departures from the International Standards on Auditing.

Where audit reports on the annual financial statements have been refused by the statutory auditors or where they contain qualifications, modifications of opinion, disclaimers or an emphasis of matter, the reason must be given, and such qualifications, modifications, disclaimers or emphasis of matter must be reproduced in full.

A description of any significant change in the financial position of the group which has occurred since the end of the last financial period for which either audited financial statements or interim financial information have been published must also be included, or an appropriate negative statement must be included.

Where applicable, pro forma information must also be included.
## VI.
Dividend policy

A description of the issuer’s policy on dividend distributions and any current restrictions thereon, as well as on share repurchases.
## VII.
Trend information

A description of:
#### (i)
the most significant recent trends in production, sales and inventory, and costs and selling prices since the end of the last financial year to the date of the EU Follow-on prospectus;
#### (ii)
information on any known trends, uncertainties, demands, commitments or events that are reasonably likely to have a material effect on the issuer’s prospects for at least the current financial year;
#### (iii)
information on the issuer’s short and long-term financial and non-financial business strategy and objectives.

If there is no significant change in either of the trends referred to in point (i) or (ii) of this section, a statement to that effect is to be made.
VIII.

Profit forecasts and estimates

Where an issuer has published a profit forecast or a profit estimate that remains outstanding and valid, that forecast or estimate shall be included in the EU Follow-on prospectus.

If a profit forecast or profit estimate has been published and remains outstanding, but is no longer valid, a statement to that effect shall be provided along with an explanation as to why such forecast or estimate is no longer valid.
## IX.
Details of the offer or admission to trading

Set out the offer price, the number of shares offered, the amount of the issue or offer, the conditions to which the offer is subject, and the procedure for the exercise of any right of pre-emption. If the amount is not fixed, an indication of the maximum amount of the shares to be offered (if available) and a description of the arrangements and the time period for announcing to the public the definitive amount of the offer.

Provide information regarding where investors may subscribe for the shares or exercise their right of pre-emption, the duration of the offer period, including any possible amendments thereto, and a description of the application process together with the issue date of new shares.

To the extent known to the issuer, provide information on whether major shareholders or members of the issuer’s management, supervisory or administrative bodies intend to subscribe for the offer, or whether any person intends to subscribe for more than 5 % of the offer.

Present any firm commitments to subscribe for more than 5 % of the offer and all material features of the underwriting and placement agreements, including the name and address of the entities agreeing to underwrite or place the issue on a firm commitment basis or under ‘best efforts’ arrangements and the quotas.

Where applicable, indicate the regulated markets, the SME growth markets or the MTFs where the shares are to be admitted to trading and, if known, the earliest dates on which the shares will be admitted to trading.
## X.
Essential information on the shares

Provide the following essential information about the shares offered to the public or admitted to trading on a regulated market:
#### (i)
a description of the type, class and amount of the shares being offered to the public or admitted to trading on a regulated market;
#### (ii)
the international security identification number (ISIN);
#### (iii)
the rights attached to the shares, the procedure for the exercise of those rights and any limitations of those rights;
#### (iv)
the price at which the shares will be offered or, if the price is not known, an indication of the maximum price or a description of the method for determining the price, pursuant to [[2017R1129_EN.17|Article 17]] of this Regulation and the process for its disclosure;
#### (v)
a warning that the tax legislation of the investor’s Member State and of the issuer’s country of incorporation may have an impact on the income received from the shares; and
#### (vi)
where applicable, information on the underlying securities and, where applicable, the issuer of the underlying securities.

In the case of new issues, provide a statement of the resolutions, authorisations and approvals by virtue of which the securities have been or will be created or issued.
## XI.
Reasons for the offer and use of proceeds

Provide information on the reasons for the offer and, where applicable, the estimated net amount of the proceeds broken into each principal intended use and presented in order of priority of such uses.

Where the issuer is aware that the anticipated proceeds will not be sufficient to fund all proposed uses, it must state the amount and sources of other funds needed. Details must also be given with regard to the use of the proceeds, in particular where proceeds are being used to acquire assets, other than in the ordinary course of business, to finance announced acquisitions of other business, or to discharge, reduce or retire indebtedness.
## XII.
Lock-up agreements

In relation to lock-up agreements, provide details on the following:
#### (i)
the parties involved;
#### (ii)
the content and exceptions of the agreement; and
#### (iii)
an indication of the period of the lock up.
XIII.

Working capital statement

Statement by the issuer that, in its opinion, the working capital is sufficient for the issuer’s present requirements or, if not, how the issuer proposes to provide the additional working capital needed.
## XIV.
Conflicts of interest

Provide information about any interests related to the issuance, including conflicts of interest, and details of the persons involved and the nature of the interests.
## XV.
Dilution and shareholding after the issuance

Present a comparison of participation in share capital and voting rights for existing shareholders before and after the capital increase resulting from the public offer, with the assumption that existing shareholders do not subscribe for the new shares and, separately, with the assumption that existing shareholders do take up their entitlement.
## XVI.
Documents available

A statement that for the term of the EU Follow-on prospectus the following documents, where applicable, can be inspected:
#### (i)
the up-to-date memorandum and articles of association of the issuer;
#### (ii)
all reports, letters, and other documents, valuations and statements prepared by an expert at the issuer’s request any part of which is included or referred to in the EU Follow-on prospectus.

An indication of the website on which the documents may be inspected.### Table 1 in anx_VI

| Directive 2003/71/EC | This Regulation |
| --- | --- |
| Article 1(1) | Article 1(1) |
| Article 1(2)(a) | Article 1(2)(a) |
| Article 1(2)(b) | Article 1(2)(b) |
| Article 1(2)(c) | Article 1(2)(c) |
| Article 1(2)(d) | Article 1(2)(d) |
| Article 1(2)(e) | Article 1(2)(e) |
| Article 1(2)(f) | — |
| Article 1(2)(g) | Article 1(2)(f) |
| Article 1(2)(h) | Article 1(3) |
| Article 1(2)(i) | — |
| Article 1(2)(j) | Article 1(4)(j) and Article 1(5), first subparagraph, point (i) |
| Article 1(3) | Article 4 |
| Article 1(4) | — |
| Article 2(1)(a) | Article 2(a) |
| Article 2(1)(b) | Article 2(b) |
| Article 2(1)(c) | Article 2(c) |
| Article 2(1)(d) | Article 2(d) |
| Article 2(1)(e) | Article 2(e) |
| Article 2(1)(f) | Article 2(f) |
| Article 2(1)(g) | Article 2(g) |
| Article 2(1)(h) | Article 2(h) |
| Article 2(1)(i) | Article 2(i) |
| Article 2(1)(j) | Article 2(j) |
| Article 2(1)(k) | — |
| Article 2(1)(l) | — |
| Article 2(1)(m) | Article 2(m) |
| Article 2(1)(n) | Article 2(n) |
| Article 2(1)(o) | Article 2(p) |
| Article 2(1)(p) | Article 2(q) |
| Article 2(1)(q) | Article 2(r) |
| Article 2(1)(r) | Article 2(s) |
| Article 2(1)(s) | — |
| Article 2(1)(t) | — |
| Article 2(4) | — |
| Article 3(1) | Article 3(1) |
| Article 3(2)(a) | Article 1(4)(a) |
| Article 3(2)(b) | Article 1(4)(b) |
| Article 3(2)(c) | Article 1(4)(d) |
| Article 3(2)(d) | Article 1(4)(c) |
| Article 3(2)(e) | — |
| Article 3(2), second and third subparagraphs | Article 5(1) |
| Article 3(3) | Article 3(3) |
| Article 3(4) | — |
| Article 4(1)(a) | Article 1(4)(e) |
| Article 4(1)(b) | Article 1(4)(f) |
| Article 4(1)(c) | Article 1(4)(g) |
| Article 4(1)(d) | Article 1(4)(h) |
| Article 4(1)(e) | Article 1(4)(i) |
| Article 4(1), second to fifth subparagraphs | — |
| Article 4(2)(a) | Article 1(5), first subparagraph, point (a) |
| Article 4(2)(b) | Article 1(5), first subparagraph, point (d) |
| Article 4(2)(c) | Article 1(5), first subparagraph, point (e) |
| Article 4(2)(d) | Article 1(5), first subparagraph, point (f) |
| Article 4(2)(e) | Article 1(5), first subparagraph, point (g) |
| Article 4(2)(f) | Article 1(5), first subparagraph, point (h) |
| Article 4(2)(g) | Article 1(5), first subparagraph, points (b) and (c) |
| Article 4(2)(h) | Article 1(5), first subparagraph, point (j) |
| Article 4(3) | Article 1(7) |
| Article 5(1) | Article 6(1) and (2), Article 14(2) |
| Article 5(2) | Article 7 |
| Article 5(3) | Article 6(3) |
| Article 5(4), first subparagraph | Article 8(1) |
| Article 5(4), second subparagraph | Article 8(10) |
| Article 5(4), third subparagraph, first sentence | Article 8(5) and Article 25(4) |
| Article 5(4), third subparagraph, second sentence | Article 8(4) |
| Article 5(5) | Article 13(1) and Article 7(13) |
| Article 6(1) | Article 11(1) |
| Article 6(2) | Article 11(2) |
| Article 7(1) | Article 13(1), first subparagraph |
| Article 7(2)(a) | Article 13(1), second subparagraph, point (a) |
| Article 7(2)(b) | Article 13(1), second subparagraph, point (b) |
| Article 7(2)(c) | Article 13(1), second subparagraph, point (c) |
| Article 7(2)(d) | Article 13(1), second subparagraph, point (c) |
| Article 7(2)(e) | Article 15(2) |
| Article 7(2)(f) | Article 13(1), second subparagraph, point (d) |
| Article 7(2)(g) | Article 14(3) |
| Article 7(3) | Article 13(3) |
| Article 7(4) | — |
| Article 8(1), first subparagraph, point (a) | Article 17(1), first subparagraph, point (b) |
| Article 8(1), first subparagraph, point (b) | Article 17(1), first subparagraph, point (a) |
| Article 8(1), second subparagraph | Article 17(2) |
| Article 8(2) | Article 18(1) |
| Article 8(3) | Article 18(2) |
| Article 8(3a) | Article 18(3) |
| Article 8(4) | Article 18(4), first subparagraph |
| Article 8(5), first subparagraph | — |
| Article 8(5), second subparagraph | — |
| Article 9(1) | Article 12(1) |
| Article 9(2) | Article 12(1) |
| Article 9(3) | Article 12(1) |
| Article 9(4) | Article 12(2) |
| Article 11(1) | Article 19(1) |
| Article 11(2) | Article 19(2) |
| Article 11(3) | Article 19(4) |
| Article 12(1) | Article 10(1), first subparagraph |
| Article 12(2) | Article 10(1), second subparagraph |
| Article 12(3) | — |
| Article 13(1) | Article 20(1) |
| Article 13(2) | Article 20(2) |
| Article 13(3) | Article 20(3) |
| Article 13(4) | Article 20(4) |
| Article 13(5) | Article 20(8) |
| Article 13(6) | Article 20(9) |
| Article 13(7) | — |
| Article 14(1) | Article 21(1) |
| Article 14(2) | Article 21(2) |
| Article 14(3) | — |
| Article 14(4) | Article 21(5) |
| Article 14(4a) | Article 21(6) |
| Article 14(5) | Article 21(9) |
| Article 14(6) | Article 21(10) |
| Article 14(7) | Article 21(11) |
| Article 14(8) | Article 21(12) |
| Article 15(1) | Article 22(1) |
| Article 15(2) | Article 22(2) |
| Article 15(3) | Article 22(3) |
| Article 15(4) | Article 22(4) |
| Article 15(5) | Article 22(5) |
| Article 15(6) | Article 22(6) |
| Article 15(7) | Article 22(9) |
| Article 16(1) | Article 23(1) |
| Article 16(2) | Article 23(2) |
| Article 16(3) | Article 23(7) |
| Article 17(1) | Article 24(1) |
| Article 17(2) | Article 24(2) |
| Article 18(1) | Article 25(1) |
| Article 18(2) | Article 25(2) |
| Article 18(3), first subparagraph | Article 25(3) |
| Article 18(3), second subparagraph | Article 21(5) |
| Article 18(4) | Article 25(8) |
| Article 19(1) | Article 27(1) |
| Article 19(2) | Article 27(2) |
| Article 19(3) | Article 27(3) |
| Article 19(4) | Article 27(5) |
| Article 20(1) | Article 29(1) |
| Article 20(2) | Article 29(2) |
| Article 20(3) | Article 29(3) |
| Article 21(1) | Article 31(1) |
| Article 21(1a) | Article 34(1) |
| Article 21(1b) | Article 34(2) |
| Article 21(2) | Article 31(2) |
| Article 21(3)(a) | Article 32(1)(a) |
| Article 21(3)(b) | Article 32(1)(b) |
| Article 21(3)(c) | Article 32(1)(c) |
| Article 21(3)(d) | Article 32(1)(d) |
| Article 21(3)(e) | Article 32(1)(e) |
| Article 21(3)(f) | Article 32(1)(f) |
| Article 21(3)(g) | Article 32(1)(g) |
| Article 21(3)(h) | Article 32(1)(h) |
| Article 21(3)(i) | Article 32(1)(i) |
| Article 21(3), second subparagraph | Article 32(1), second subparagraph |
| Article 21(4)(a) | Article 32(1)(l) |
| Article 21(4)(b) | Article 32(1)(m) |
| Article 21(4)(c) | — |
| Article 21(4)(d) | Article 32(1)(n) |
| Article 21(4), second subparagraph | Article 32(1), fourth subparagraph |
| Article 21(5) | Article 31(3) and Article 32(6) |
| Article 22(1) | Article 35(2) |
| Article 22(2), first subparagraph | Article 33(1) |
| Article 22(2), second subparagraph | — |
| Article 22(2), third subparagraph | Article 33(5) |
| Article 22(3) | — |
| Article 22(4) | Article 33(6) and (7) |
| Article 23(1) | Article 37(1) |
| Article 23(2) | Article 37(2) |
| Article 24(1) | Article 45(1) |
| Article 24(2) | Article 45(2) |
| Article 24(2a) | — |
| Article 24(3) | — |
| Article 24a | Article 44 |
| Article 24b | Article 44 |
| Article 24c | Article 44 |
| Article 25(1) | Article 38(1) |
| Article 25(2) | Article 42 |
| Article 26 | Article 40 |
| Article 27 | — |
| Article 28 | Article 46 |
| Article 29 | — |
| Article 30 | — |
| Article 31 | Article 48 |
| Article 31a | — |
| Article 32 | Article 49 |
| Article 33 | — |
