---
surnom_texte_lvl1: Prospectus
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2017R1129
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2017R1129
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2017R1129_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2017R1129_FR.43]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02017R1129-20241204).
>
> [[2017R1129_EN.42|Article 42 – Publication of decisions]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2017R1129_EN.44|Article 44 – Exercise of the delegation]]
>

# Article 43 - Reporting sanctions to ESMA

## 1.
The competent authority shall, on an annual basis, provide ESMA with aggregate information regarding all administrative sanctions and other administrative measures imposed in accordance with [[2017R1129_EN.38|Article 38]]. ESMA shall publish that information in an annual report.

Where Member States have chosen, in accordance with [[2017R1129_EN.38#1|Article 38(1)]], to lay down criminal sanctions for the infringements of the provisions referred to in that paragraph, their competent authorities shall provide ESMA annually with anonymised and aggregated data regarding all criminal investigations undertaken and criminal sanctions imposed. ESMA shall publish data on criminal sanctions imposed in an annual report.
## 2.
Where the competent authority has disclosed administrative sanctions, other administrative measures or criminal sanctions to the public, it shall simultaneously report them to ESMA.
## 3.
Competent authorities shall inform ESMA of all administrative sanctions or other administrative measures imposed but not published in accordance with point (c) of the first subparagraph of [[2017R1129_EN.42#2|Article 42(2)]] including any appeal in relation thereto and the outcome thereof. Member States shall ensure that competent authorities receive information and the final judgment in relation to any criminal sanction imposed and submit it to ESMA. ESMA shall maintain a central database of sanctions communicated to it solely for the purposes of exchanging information between competent authorities. That database shall be accessible only to competent authorities and it shall be updated on the basis of the information provided by the competent authorities.