---
surnom_texte_lvl1: Prospectus
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2017R1129
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2017R1129
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2017R1129_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2017R1129_FR.22]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02017R1129-20241204).
>
> [[2017R1129_EN.21a|Article 21a – Accessibility of information on the European single access point]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2017R1129_EN.23|Article 23 – Supplements to the prospectus]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 2 reference(s): [[2019R0979_EN.0]]# Article 22 - Advertisements

## 1.
Any advertisement relating either to an offer of securities to the public or to an admission to trading on a regulated market shall comply with the principles contained in paragraphs 2 to 5. Paragraphs 2 to 4 and point (b) of paragraph 5 shall apply only to cases where the issuer, the offeror or the person asking for admission to trading on a regulated market is subject to the obligation to draw up a prospectus.
## 2.
Advertisements shall state that a prospectus has been or will be published and indicate where investors are or will be able to obtain it.
## 3.
Advertisements shall be clearly recognisable as such. The information contained in an advertisement shall not be inaccurate or misleading and shall be consistent with the information contained in the prospectus, where already published, or with the information required to be in the prospectus, where the prospectus is yet to be published.
## 4.
All information disclosed in an oral or written form concerning the offer of securities to the public or the admission to trading on a regulated market, even where not for advertising purposes, shall be consistent with the information contained in the prospectus.
## 5.
In the event that material information is disclosed by an issuer or an offeror and addressed to one or more selected investors in oral or written form, such information shall, as applicable, either:
### (a)
be disclosed to all other investors to whom the offer is addressed, in the event that a prospectus is not required to be published in accordance with [[2017R1129_EN.1#4|Article 1(4)]] or (5); or
### (b)
be included in the prospectus or in a supplement to the prospectus in accordance with [[2017R1129_EN.23#1|Article 23(1)]], in the event that a prospectus is required to be published.
## 6.
The competent authority of the Member State where the advertisements are disseminated shall have the power to exercise control over the compliance of advertising activity, relating to an offer of securities to the public or an admission to trading on a regulated market, with paragraphs 2 to 4.

Where necessary, the competent authority of the home Member State shall assist the competent authority of the Member State where the advertisements are disseminated with assessing the consistency of the advertisements with the information in the prospectus.

Without prejudice to [[2017R1129_EN.32#1|Article 32(1)]], scrutiny of the advertisements by a competent authority shall not constitute a precondition for the offer of securities to the public or the admission to trading to a regulated market to take place in any host Member State.

The use of any of the supervisory and investigatory powers set out in [[2017R1129_EN.32|Article 32]] in relation to the enforcement of this Article by the competent authority of a host Member State shall be communicated without undue delay to the competent authority of the home Member State of the issuer.
## 7.
Competent authorities of host Member States may only charge fees that are linked to the performance of their supervisory tasks pursuant to this Article. The level of fees shall be disclosed on the websites of the competent authorities. Fees shall be non-discriminatory, reasonable and proportionate to the supervisory task. Competent authorities of host Member States shall not impose any requirements or administrative procedures in addition to those required for the exercise of their supervisory tasks pursuant to this Article.
## 8.
By way of derogation from paragraph 6, any two competent authorities may conclude an agreement whereby, for the purposes of exercising control over compliance of advertising activity in cross-border situations, the competent authority of the home Member State is to retain control over that compliance. Any such agreement shall be notified to ESMA. ESMA shall publish and regularly update a list of such agreements.
## 9.
ESMA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to specify further the provisions concerning advertisements laid down in paragraphs 2 to 4, including to specify the provisions concerning the dissemination of advertisements and to establish procedures on the cooperation between the competent authorities of the home Member State and of the Member State where the advertisements are disseminated.

ESMA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to the Commission by 21 July 2018.

Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in accordance with Articles [[2010R1095_EN.10|10]] to [[2010R1095_EN.14|14]] of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010.
## 10.
Pursuant to [[2010R1095_EN.16|Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010]], ESMA shall develop guidelines and recommendations addressed to competent authorities relating to the control exercised under paragraph 6 of this Article. Those guidelines and recommendations shall take into account the need to ensure that such control does not hamper the functioning of the notification procedure set out in [[2017R1129_EN.25|Article 25]], while minimising the administrative burdens on issuers making cross-border offers in the Union.
## 11.
This Article is without prejudice to other applicable provisions of Union law.