---
surnom_texte_lvl1: Prospectus
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2017R1129
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2017R1129
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
# ANNEX VII - Summary
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2017R1129_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2017R1129_FR.VII]]. Link to the [[CELEX_02017R1129-20241204_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02017R1129-20241204).
>
> [[2017R1129_EN.VI|Article VI – ]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2017R1129_EN.VIII|Article VIII – Summary]]
>


## I.
Summary

The EU Growth issuance prospectus must include a summary drawn up in accordance with [[2017R1129_EN.7|Article 7]](12a).
## II.
Information about the issuer

Identify the company issuing the shares, including the place of registration of the issuer, its registration number and legal entity identifier (‘LEI’), its legal and commercial name, the legislation under which the issuer operates, its country of incorporation, the address, telephone number of its registered office (or principal place of business if different from its registered office) and the website, if any, with a disclaimer that the information on the website does not form part of the EU Growth issuance prospectus unless that information is incorporated by reference into the EU Growth issuance prospectus.
## III.
Responsibility statement and statement on the competent authority

A.

Responsibility statement

Identify the persons responsible for drawing up the EU Growth issuance prospectus and include a statement by those persons that, to the best of their knowledge, the information contained in the EU Growth issuance prospectus is in accordance with the facts and that the EU Growth issuance prospectus makes no omission likely to affect its import.

Where applicable, the statement must contain information sourced from third parties, including the source(s) of that information, and statements or reports attributed to a person as an expert and the following details of that person:
#### (i)
name;
#### (ii)
business address;
#### (iii)
qualifications; and
#### (iv)
material interest (if any) in the issuer.

B.

Statement on the competent authority

The statement must indicate the competent authority that has approved, in accordance with this Regulation, the EU Growth issuance prospectus, specify that such approval is not an endorsement of the issuer nor of the quality of the shares to which the EU Growth issuance prospectus relates, that the competent authority has only approved the EU Growth issuance prospectus as meeting the standards of completeness, comprehensibility and consistency imposed by this Regulation, and specify that the EU Growth issuance prospectus has been drawn up in accordance with [[2017R1129_EN.15a|Article 15a]].
## IV.
Risk factors

The risks shall be corroborated by the content of the EU Growth issuance prospectus.

A description of the material risks, in a limited number of categories, that are specific to the issuer and a description of the material risks, in a limited number of categories, that are specific to the shares being offered to the public in a section headed ‘Risk Factors’.
## V.
Growth strategy and business overview

A.

Growth strategy and objectives

A description of the issuer’s business strategy, including growth potential and expectations for the future, and strategic objectives (both financial and non-financial, if any). This description shall take into account the issuer’s future challenges and prospects.

B.

Principal activities and markets

A description of the issuer’s principal activities, including: (a) the main categories of products sold and/or services performed; (b) an indication of any significant new products, services or activities that have been introduced since the publication of the latest audited financial statements. A description of the principal markets in which the issuer competes, including market growth, trends and competitive situation.

C.

Investments

To the extent not covered elsewhere in the EU Growth issuance prospectus, a description (including the amount) of the issuer’s material investments from the end of the period covered by the historical financial information included in the EU Growth issuance prospectus up to the date of the EU Growth issuance prospectus and, if relevant, a description of any material investments of the issuer’s that are in progress or for which firm commitments have already been made.

D.

Profit forecasts and estimates

Where an issuer has published a profit forecast or a profit estimate that remains outstanding and valid, that forecast or estimate shall be included in the EU Growth issuance prospectus.

If a profit forecast or profit estimate has been published and remains outstanding, but is no longer valid, a statement to that effect shall be provided along with an explanation as to why such forecast or estimate is no longer valid.
## VI.
Organisational structure

If the issuer is part of a group and where not covered elsewhere in the EU Growth issuance prospectus and to the extent necessary for an understanding of the issuer’s business as a whole, a diagram of the organisational structure.
## VII.
Corporate governance

Provide the following information for the members of the administrative, management and/or supervisory bodies, any senior manager who is relevant to establishing that the issuer has the appropriate expertise and experience for the management of the issuer’s business, and, in the case of a limited partnership with a share capital, partners with unlimited liability:
#### (i)
names, business addresses and functions within the issuer of the following persons, details on their relevant management expertise and experience and an indication of the principal activities performed by them outside of the issuer where these are significant with respect to that issuer;
#### (ii)
details of the nature of any family relationship between any of those persons;
#### (iii)
details, for at least the last five years, of any convictions in relation to fraudulent offences and details of any official public incrimination and/or sanctions involving such persons by statutory or regulatory authorities (including designated professional bodies) and whether they have ever been disqualified by a court from acting as a member of the administrative, management or supervisory bodies of an issuer or from acting in the management or conduct of the affairs of any issuer. If there is no such information required to be disclosed, a statement to that effect is to be made.
VIII.

Financial information

The financial statements (annual and half-yearly) published over the period of 12 months prior to the approval of the EU Growth issuance prospectus. Where both annual and half-yearly financial statements have been published, only the annual statements must be required where they postdate the half-yearly financial statements.

The annual financial statements must be independently audited. The audit report must be prepared in accordance with Directive 2006/43/EC and Regulation (EU) No 537/2014.

Where Directive 2006/43/EC and Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 do not apply, the annual financial statements must be audited or reported on as to whether or not, for the purposes of the EU Growth issuance prospectus, they give a true and fair view in accordance with auditing standards applicable in a Member State or an equivalent standard. Otherwise, the following information must be included in the EU Growth issuance prospectus:
#### (i)
a prominent statement disclosing which auditing standards have been applied;
#### (ii)
an explanation of any significant departures from the International Standards on Auditing.

Where audit reports on the annual financial statements have been refused by the statutory auditors or where they contain qualifications, modifications of opinion, disclaimers or an emphasis of matter, the reason must be given, and such qualifications, modifications, disclaimers or emphasis of matter must be reproduced in full.

A description of any significant change in the financial position of the group which has occurred since the end of the last financial period for which either audited financial statements or interim financial information have been published must also be included, or an appropriate negative statement must be included.

Where applicable, pro forma information must also be included.
## IX.
Management report including, where applicable, the sustainability reporting (issuers with market capitalisation above EUR 200 000 000  only)

The management report as referred to in Chapters 5 and 6 of Directive 2013/34/EU for the periods covered by the historical financial information including, where applicable, the sustainability reporting, must be alternatively incorporated by reference or the information contained therein must be included in the EU Growth issuance prospectus.

This requirement applies only to issuers with market capitalisation above EUR 200 000 000 .
## X.
Dividend policy

A description of the issuer’s policy on dividend distributions and any current restrictions thereon, as well as on share repurchases.
## XI.
Details of the offer or admission to trading

Set out the offer price, the number of shares offered, the amount of the issue or offer, the conditions to which the offer is subject, and the procedure for the exercise of any right of pre-emption. If the amount is not fixed, an indication of the maximum amount of the shares to be offered (if available) and a description of the arrangements and the time period for announcing to the public the definitive amount of the offer.

Provide information regarding where investors may subscribe for the shares or exercise their right of pre-emption, the duration of the offer period, including any possible amendments thereto, and a description of the application process together with the issue date of new shares.

To the extent known to the issuer, provide information on whether major shareholders or members of the issuer’s management, supervisory or administrative bodies intend to subscribe for the offer, or whether any person intends to subscribe for more than 5 % of the offer.

Present any firm commitments to subscribe for more than 5 % of the offer and all material features of the underwriting and placement agreements, including the name and address of the entities agreeing to underwrite or place the issue on a firm commitment basis or under ‘best efforts’ arrangements and the quotas.

Where applicable, indicate the SME growth market or the MTF where the securities are to be admitted to trading and, if known, the earliest dates on which the securities will be admitted to trading.

Where applicable, details of any entities which have a firm commitment to act as intermediaries in secondary trading, providing liquidity through bid and offer rates and description of the main terms of their commitment.
## XII.
Essential information on the shares

Provide the following essential information about the shares offered to the public:
#### (i)
a description of the type, class and amount of the shares being offered to the public;
#### (ii)
the international security identification number (ISIN);
#### (iii)
the rights attached to the shares, the procedure for the exercise of those rights and any limitations of those rights;
#### (iv)
where applicable, the information referred to in [[2024L2810_EN.5|Article 5 of Directive (EU) 2810/2024]];
#### (v)
the price at which the shares will be offered or, if the price is not known, an indication of the maximum price or a description of the method for determining the price, pursuant to [[2017R1129_EN.17|Article 17]] of this Regulation and the process for its disclosure;
#### (vi)
a warning that the tax legislation of the investor’s Member State and of the issuer’s country of incorporation may have an impact on the income received from the shares; and
#### (vii)
where applicable, information on the underlying securities and, where applicable, the issuer of the underlying securities.
XIII.

Reason for the offer and use of proceeds

Provide information on the reasons for the offer and, where applicable, the estimated net amount of the proceeds broken into each principal intended use and presented in order of priority of such uses.

Where the issuer is aware that the anticipated proceeds will not be sufficient to fund all proposed uses, it must state the amount and sources of other funds needed. Details must also be given with regard to the use of the proceeds, in particular where proceeds are being used to acquire assets, other than in the ordinary course of business, to finance announced acquisitions of other business, or to discharge, reduce or retire indebtedness.

Provide an explanation of how the proceeds from the offer align with the business strategy and strategic objectives.
## XIV.
Working capital statement

Statement by the issuer that, in its opinion, the working capital is sufficient for the issuer’s present requirements or, if not, how the issuer proposes to provide the additional working capital needed.
## XV.
Conflicts of interest

Provide information about any interests related to the issuance, including conflicts of interest, and details of the persons involved and the nature of the interests.
## XVI.
Dilution and shareholding after the issuance

Present a comparison of participation in share capital and voting rights for existing shareholders before and after the capital increase resulting from the public offer, with the assumption that existing shareholders do not subscribe for the new shares and, separately, with the assumption that existing shareholders do take up their entitlement.
XVII.

Documents available

An indication of the website on which the documents may be inspected.

A statement that for the term of the EU Growth issuance prospectus the following documents, where applicable, can be inspected:
#### (i)
the up-to-date memorandum and articles of association of the issuer;
#### (ii)
all reports, letters, and other documents, valuations and statements prepared by an expert at the issuer’s request any part of which is included or referred to in the EU Growth issuance prospectus.### Table 1 in anx_VI

| Directive 2003/71/EC | This Regulation |
| --- | --- |
| Article 1(1) | Article 1(1) |
| Article 1(2)(a) | Article 1(2)(a) |
| Article 1(2)(b) | Article 1(2)(b) |
| Article 1(2)(c) | Article 1(2)(c) |
| Article 1(2)(d) | Article 1(2)(d) |
| Article 1(2)(e) | Article 1(2)(e) |
| Article 1(2)(f) | — |
| Article 1(2)(g) | Article 1(2)(f) |
| Article 1(2)(h) | Article 1(3) |
| Article 1(2)(i) | — |
| Article 1(2)(j) | Article 1(4)(j) and Article 1(5), first subparagraph, point (i) |
| Article 1(3) | Article 4 |
| Article 1(4) | — |
| Article 2(1)(a) | Article 2(a) |
| Article 2(1)(b) | Article 2(b) |
| Article 2(1)(c) | Article 2(c) |
| Article 2(1)(d) | Article 2(d) |
| Article 2(1)(e) | Article 2(e) |
| Article 2(1)(f) | Article 2(f) |
| Article 2(1)(g) | Article 2(g) |
| Article 2(1)(h) | Article 2(h) |
| Article 2(1)(i) | Article 2(i) |
| Article 2(1)(j) | Article 2(j) |
| Article 2(1)(k) | — |
| Article 2(1)(l) | — |
| Article 2(1)(m) | Article 2(m) |
| Article 2(1)(n) | Article 2(n) |
| Article 2(1)(o) | Article 2(p) |
| Article 2(1)(p) | Article 2(q) |
| Article 2(1)(q) | Article 2(r) |
| Article 2(1)(r) | Article 2(s) |
| Article 2(1)(s) | — |
| Article 2(1)(t) | — |
| Article 2(4) | — |
| Article 3(1) | Article 3(1) |
| Article 3(2)(a) | Article 1(4)(a) |
| Article 3(2)(b) | Article 1(4)(b) |
| Article 3(2)(c) | Article 1(4)(d) |
| Article 3(2)(d) | Article 1(4)(c) |
| Article 3(2)(e) | — |
| Article 3(2), second and third subparagraphs | Article 5(1) |
| Article 3(3) | Article 3(3) |
| Article 3(4) | — |
| Article 4(1)(a) | Article 1(4)(e) |
| Article 4(1)(b) | Article 1(4)(f) |
| Article 4(1)(c) | Article 1(4)(g) |
| Article 4(1)(d) | Article 1(4)(h) |
| Article 4(1)(e) | Article 1(4)(i) |
| Article 4(1), second to fifth subparagraphs | — |
| Article 4(2)(a) | Article 1(5), first subparagraph, point (a) |
| Article 4(2)(b) | Article 1(5), first subparagraph, point (d) |
| Article 4(2)(c) | Article 1(5), first subparagraph, point (e) |
| Article 4(2)(d) | Article 1(5), first subparagraph, point (f) |
| Article 4(2)(e) | Article 1(5), first subparagraph, point (g) |
| Article 4(2)(f) | Article 1(5), first subparagraph, point (h) |
| Article 4(2)(g) | Article 1(5), first subparagraph, points (b) and (c) |
| Article 4(2)(h) | Article 1(5), first subparagraph, point (j) |
| Article 4(3) | Article 1(7) |
| Article 5(1) | Article 6(1) and (2), Article 14(2) |
| Article 5(2) | Article 7 |
| Article 5(3) | Article 6(3) |
| Article 5(4), first subparagraph | Article 8(1) |
| Article 5(4), second subparagraph | Article 8(10) |
| Article 5(4), third subparagraph, first sentence | Article 8(5) and Article 25(4) |
| Article 5(4), third subparagraph, second sentence | Article 8(4) |
| Article 5(5) | Article 13(1) and Article 7(13) |
| Article 6(1) | Article 11(1) |
| Article 6(2) | Article 11(2) |
| Article 7(1) | Article 13(1), first subparagraph |
| Article 7(2)(a) | Article 13(1), second subparagraph, point (a) |
| Article 7(2)(b) | Article 13(1), second subparagraph, point (b) |
| Article 7(2)(c) | Article 13(1), second subparagraph, point (c) |
| Article 7(2)(d) | Article 13(1), second subparagraph, point (c) |
| Article 7(2)(e) | Article 15(2) |
| Article 7(2)(f) | Article 13(1), second subparagraph, point (d) |
| Article 7(2)(g) | Article 14(3) |
| Article 7(3) | Article 13(3) |
| Article 7(4) | — |
| Article 8(1), first subparagraph, point (a) | Article 17(1), first subparagraph, point (b) |
| Article 8(1), first subparagraph, point (b) | Article 17(1), first subparagraph, point (a) |
| Article 8(1), second subparagraph | Article 17(2) |
| Article 8(2) | Article 18(1) |
| Article 8(3) | Article 18(2) |
| Article 8(3a) | Article 18(3) |
| Article 8(4) | Article 18(4), first subparagraph |
| Article 8(5), first subparagraph | — |
| Article 8(5), second subparagraph | — |
| Article 9(1) | Article 12(1) |
| Article 9(2) | Article 12(1) |
| Article 9(3) | Article 12(1) |
| Article 9(4) | Article 12(2) |
| Article 11(1) | Article 19(1) |
| Article 11(2) | Article 19(2) |
| Article 11(3) | Article 19(4) |
| Article 12(1) | Article 10(1), first subparagraph |
| Article 12(2) | Article 10(1), second subparagraph |
| Article 12(3) | — |
| Article 13(1) | Article 20(1) |
| Article 13(2) | Article 20(2) |
| Article 13(3) | Article 20(3) |
| Article 13(4) | Article 20(4) |
| Article 13(5) | Article 20(8) |
| Article 13(6) | Article 20(9) |
| Article 13(7) | — |
| Article 14(1) | Article 21(1) |
| Article 14(2) | Article 21(2) |
| Article 14(3) | — |
| Article 14(4) | Article 21(5) |
| Article 14(4a) | Article 21(6) |
| Article 14(5) | Article 21(9) |
| Article 14(6) | Article 21(10) |
| Article 14(7) | Article 21(11) |
| Article 14(8) | Article 21(12) |
| Article 15(1) | Article 22(1) |
| Article 15(2) | Article 22(2) |
| Article 15(3) | Article 22(3) |
| Article 15(4) | Article 22(4) |
| Article 15(5) | Article 22(5) |
| Article 15(6) | Article 22(6) |
| Article 15(7) | Article 22(9) |
| Article 16(1) | Article 23(1) |
| Article 16(2) | Article 23(2) |
| Article 16(3) | Article 23(7) |
| Article 17(1) | Article 24(1) |
| Article 17(2) | Article 24(2) |
| Article 18(1) | Article 25(1) |
| Article 18(2) | Article 25(2) |
| Article 18(3), first subparagraph | Article 25(3) |
| Article 18(3), second subparagraph | Article 21(5) |
| Article 18(4) | Article 25(8) |
| Article 19(1) | Article 27(1) |
| Article 19(2) | Article 27(2) |
| Article 19(3) | Article 27(3) |
| Article 19(4) | Article 27(5) |
| Article 20(1) | Article 29(1) |
| Article 20(2) | Article 29(2) |
| Article 20(3) | Article 29(3) |
| Article 21(1) | Article 31(1) |
| Article 21(1a) | Article 34(1) |
| Article 21(1b) | Article 34(2) |
| Article 21(2) | Article 31(2) |
| Article 21(3)(a) | Article 32(1)(a) |
| Article 21(3)(b) | Article 32(1)(b) |
| Article 21(3)(c) | Article 32(1)(c) |
| Article 21(3)(d) | Article 32(1)(d) |
| Article 21(3)(e) | Article 32(1)(e) |
| Article 21(3)(f) | Article 32(1)(f) |
| Article 21(3)(g) | Article 32(1)(g) |
| Article 21(3)(h) | Article 32(1)(h) |
| Article 21(3)(i) | Article 32(1)(i) |
| Article 21(3), second subparagraph | Article 32(1), second subparagraph |
| Article 21(4)(a) | Article 32(1)(l) |
| Article 21(4)(b) | Article 32(1)(m) |
| Article 21(4)(c) | — |
| Article 21(4)(d) | Article 32(1)(n) |
| Article 21(4), second subparagraph | Article 32(1), fourth subparagraph |
| Article 21(5) | Article 31(3) and Article 32(6) |
| Article 22(1) | Article 35(2) |
| Article 22(2), first subparagraph | Article 33(1) |
| Article 22(2), second subparagraph | — |
| Article 22(2), third subparagraph | Article 33(5) |
| Article 22(3) | — |
| Article 22(4) | Article 33(6) and (7) |
| Article 23(1) | Article 37(1) |
| Article 23(2) | Article 37(2) |
| Article 24(1) | Article 45(1) |
| Article 24(2) | Article 45(2) |
| Article 24(2a) | — |
| Article 24(3) | — |
| Article 24a | Article 44 |
| Article 24b | Article 44 |
| Article 24c | Article 44 |
| Article 25(1) | Article 38(1) |
| Article 25(2) | Article 42 |
| Article 26 | Article 40 |
| Article 27 | — |
| Article 28 | Article 46 |
| Article 29 | — |
| Article 30 | — |
| Article 31 | Article 48 |
| Article 31a | — |
| Article 32 | Article 49 |
| Article 33 | — |
