---
surnom_texte_lvl1: Prospectus
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2017R1129
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2017R1129
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2017R1129_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2017R1129_FR.10]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02017R1129-20241204).
>
> [[2017R1129_EN.9|Article 9 – The universal registration document]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2017R1129_EN.11|Article 11 – Responsibility attaching to the prospectus]]
>

# Article 10 - Prospectuses consisting of separate documents

## 1.
An issuer that has already had a registration document approved by a competent authority shall be required to draw up only the securities note and the summary, where applicable, when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading on a regulated market. In that case, the securities note and the summary shall be subject to a separate approval.

Where, since the approval of the registration document, there has been a significant new factor, material mistake or material inaccuracy relating to the information included in the registration document which is capable of affecting the assessment of the securities, a supplement to the registration document shall be submitted for approval, at the latest at the same time as the securities note and the summary. The right to withdraw acceptances in accordance with [[2017R1129_EN.23#2|Article 23(2)]] shall not apply in that case.

The registration document and its supplement, where applicable, accompanied by the securities note and the summary shall constitute a prospectus, once approved by the competent authority.
## 2.
Once approved, the registration document shall be made available to the public without undue delay and in accordance with the arrangements set out in [[2017R1129_EN.21|Article 21]].
## 3.
An issuer that has already had a universal registration document approved by the competent authority, or that has filed a universal registration document without prior approval pursuant to the second subparagraph of [[2017R1129_EN.9#2|Article 9(2)]], shall be required to draw up only the securities note and the summary when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading on a regulated market.

Where the universal registration document has already been approved, the securities note, the summary and all amendments to the universal registration document filed since the approval of the universal registration document shall be subject to a separate approval.

Where an issuer has filed a universal registration document without prior approval, the entire documentation, including amendments to the universal registration document, shall be subject to approval, notwithstanding the fact that those documents remain separate.

The universal registration document, amended in accordance with [[2017R1129_EN.9#7|Article 9(7)]] or (9), accompanied by the securities note and the summary shall constitute a prospectus, once approved by the competent authority.