---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MAR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2014R0596
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014R0596
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2014R0596_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2014R0596_FR.26]]. Open the [[CELEX_02014R0596-20241204_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02014R0596-20241204).
>
> [[2014R0596_EN.25b|Article 25b – Collaboration platforms]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2014R0596_EN.27|Article 27 – Professional secrecy]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 2 reference(s): [[2021R1783_EN.2]]

# Article 26 - Cooperation with third countries

## 1.
The competent authorities of Member States shall, where necessary, conclude cooperation arrangements with supervisory authorities of third countries concerning the exchange of information with supervisory authorities in third countries and the enforcement of obligations arising under this Regulation in third countries. Those cooperation arrangements shall ensure at least an efficient exchange of information that allows the competent authorities to carry out their duties under this Regulation.

A *[[2014R0596_EN.3#(12)|competent authority]]* shall inform ESMA and the other competent authorities where it proposes to enter into such an arrangement.
## 2.
ESMA shall, where possible, facilitate and coordinate the development of cooperation arrangements between the competent authorities and the relevant supervisory authorities of third countries.

In order to ensure consistent harmonisation of this Article, ESMA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards containing a template document for cooperation arrangements that are to be used by competent authorities of Member States where possible.

ESMA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to the Commission by 3 July 2015.

Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory technical standards referred to in the second subparagraph in accordance with Articles [[2010R1095_EN.10|10]] to [[2010R1095_EN.14|14]] of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010.

ESMA shall also, where possible, facilitate and coordinate the exchange between competent authorities of information obtained from supervisory authorities of third countries that may be relevant to the taking of measures under Articles [[2014R0596_EN.30|30]] and [[2014R0596_EN.31|31]].
## 3.
The competent authorities shall conclude cooperation arrangements on exchange of information with the supervisory authorities of third countries only where the information disclosed is subject to guarantees of professional secrecy which are at least equivalent to those set out in [[2014R0596_EN.27|Article 27]]. Such exchange of information must be intended for the performance of the tasks of those competent authorities.