---
surnom_texte_lvl1: CSDR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2014R0909
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014R0909
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2014R0909_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2014R0909_FR.67]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02014R0909-20240501).
>
> [[2014R0909_EN.66|Article 66 – Right of appeal]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2014R0909_EN.68|Article 68 – Committee procedure]]
>

# Article 67 - Exercise of the delegation

## 1.
The power to adopt delegated acts is conferred on the Commission subject to the conditions laid down in this Article.
## 2.
The power to adopt delegated acts referred to in [[2014R0909_EN.2#2|Article 2(2)]] shall be conferred on the Commission for an indeterminate period from 17 September 2014.
## 2a.
The power to adopt delegated acts referred to in [[2014R0909_EN.7#5|Article 7(5)]], and (9) shall be conferred on the Commission for an indeterminate period from 16 January 2024.
## 3.
The delegation of power referred to in [[2014R0909_EN.2#2|Article 2(2)]] and in [[2014R0909_EN.7#5|Article 7(5)]] and (9) may be revoked at any time by the European Parliament or by the Council. A decision of revocation shall put an end to the delegation of the power specified in that decision. It shall take effect the day following the publication of the decision in the Official Journal of the European Union or at a later date specified therein. It shall not affect the validity of any delegated acts already in force.
## 4.
As soon as it adopts a delegated act, the Commission shall notify it simultaneously to the European Parliament and to the Council.
## 5.
A delegated act adopted pursuant to Article 2(2) and [[2014R0909_EN.7#5|Article 7(5)]] and (9) shall enter into force only if no objection has been expressed either by the European Parliament or the Council within a period of three months of notification of that act to the European Parliament and the Council or if, before the expiry of that period, the European Parliament and the Council have both informed the Commission that they will not object. That period shall be extended by three months at the initiative of the European Parliament or of the Council.