---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MIF2
surnom_texte_lvl2: Delegated
texte: 2022R0803
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014L0065
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2022R0803_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2022R0803_FR.3]]. Back to [[2014L0065_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32022R0803).
>
> [[2022R0803_EN.2|Article 2 – Rules of procedure in infringement proceedings before the investigation officer]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2022R0803_EN.4|Article 4 – Rules of procedure in infringement proceedings before ESMA with regard to periodic penalty payments]]
>

# Article 3 - Rules of procedure in infringement proceedings before ESMA with regard to fines and supervisory measures

## 1.
The complete file to be submitted by the investigation officer to ESMA shall include the following documents:
### (a)
the statement of findings and a copy thereof addressed to the person subject to the investigation;
### (b)
a copy of the written submissions by the person subject to the investigation;
### (c)
the minutes of any oral hearing.
## 2.
When a file is incomplete, ESMA shall make a reasoned request for additional documents to the investigation officer.
## 3.
Where ESMA considers that the facts described in the statement of findings of the investigation officer do not to constitute infringements of the requirements referred to in [[2014R0600_EN.38g#1|Article 38g(1) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014]], it shall decide to close the case and it shall notify that decision to the person subject to investigation.
## 4.
Where ESMA does not agree with the findings of the investigation officer, it shall submit a new statement of findings to the person subject to investigation. That statement of findings shall set a time limit of at least four weeks within which the person subject to investigation may make written submissions. ESMA shall not be obliged to take into account written submissions received after the expiry of that time limit for adopting a decision on the existence of an infringement and on supervisory measures and the imposition of a fine in accordance with Articles [[2022R0803_EN.38g|38g]] and [[2022R0803_EN.38h|38h]] of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014.
## 5.
Where ESMA agrees with all or some of the findings of the investigation officer, it shall inform the person subject to investigation accordingly. Such communication shall set a time limit of at least two weeks in case ESMA agrees with all of the findings, and at least four weeks in case ESMA does not agree with all of the findings, within which period the person subject to investigation may make written submissions. ESMA shall not be obliged to take into account written submissions received after the expiry of that time limit for adopting a decision on the existence of an infringement and on supervisory measures and the imposition of a fine in accordance with Articles [[2022R0803_EN.38g|38g]] and [[2022R0803_EN.38h|38h]] of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014.
## 6.
ESMA may invite the person subject to investigation to which a statement of findings has been addressed to attend an oral hearing. The person subject to investigation may be assisted by a counsel of their choice. Oral hearings shall not be public.
## 7.
If ESMA decides that one or more of the infringements of the requirements referred to in [[2014R0600_EN.38g#1|Article 38g(1) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014]] has been committed by a person subject to investigation and has adopted a decision imposing a fine in accordance with Article 38h of that regulation, it shall notify immediately that decision to the person subject to investigation.