---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MIF2
surnom_texte_lvl2: Delegated
texte: 2022R0803
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014L0065
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2022R0803_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2022R0803_FR.5]]. Back to [[2014L0065_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32022R0803).
>
> [[2022R0803_EN.4|Article 4 – Rules of procedure in infringement proceedings before ESMA with regard to periodic penalty payments]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2022R0803_EN.6|Article 6 – Access to the file and use of documents]]
>

# Article 5 - Rules of procedure for interim decisions on supervisory measures

## 1.
By way of derogation from [[2022R0803_EN.3#4|Article 3(4)]], (5) and (6) and from [[2022R0803_EN.4#1|Article 4(1)]] and (4), the procedure set out in this Article shall apply where ESMA adopts interim decisions pursuant to [[2022R0803_EN.38l#1|Article 38l(1)]], second subparagraph of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014.
## 2.
Where ESMA decides that one or more of the infringements of requirements referred to in [[2014R0600_EN.38g#1|Article 38g(1) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014]] has been committed by a person subject to investigation and adopts an interim decision imposing supervisory measures pursuant to [[2014R0600_EN.38g|Article 38g of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014]], it shall notify immediately that interim decision to the person subject to the interim decision.
ESMA shall set a time limit of at least four weeks within which the person subject to the interim decision may make written submissions on that decision. ESMA shall not be obliged to take into account written submissions received after the expiry of that time limit.

Upon request, ESMA shall grant access to the file to the person subject to the interim decision. File documents accessed shall be used only for the purposes of judicial or administrative proceedings concerning the application of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014.

ESMA may invite the person subject to the interim decision to attend an oral hearing. The persons subject to the interim decision may be assisted by a counsel of their choice. Oral hearings shall not be public.
## 3.
ESMA shall take a final decision as soon as possible after the adoption of the interim decision.
Where ESMA considers, after having heard the person subject to the interim decision, that an infringement of the provisions referred to in [[2014R0600_EN.38g#1|Article 38g(1) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014]] has been committed by the person subject to the interim decision, it shall adopt a confirmatory decision imposing one or more supervisory measures laid down in [[2014R0600_EN.38g|Article 38g of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014]]. ESMA shall immediately notify that decision to the persons subject to the interim decision.
## 4.
Where ESMA adopts a final decision that does not confirm the interim decision, the interim decision shall be deemed to be repealed.