---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MIF2
surnom_texte_lvl2: Delegated
texte: 2022R0803
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014L0065
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2022R0803_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2022R0803_FR.4]]. Back to [[2014L0065_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Open the [[CELEX_32022R0803_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32022R0803).
>
> [[2022R0803_EN.3|Article 3 – Rules of procedure in infringement proceedings before ESMA with regard to fines and supervisory measures]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2022R0803_EN.5|Article 5 – Rules of procedure for interim decisions on supervisory measures]]
>



# Article 4 - Rules of procedure in infringement proceedings before ESMA with regard to periodic penalty payments

## 1.
Before making a decision imposing a periodic penalty payment pursuant to [[2014R0600_EN.38i|Article 38i of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014]], ESMA shall submit a statement of findings to the person subject to the proceedings setting out the reasons justifying the imposition of a periodic penalty payment and the amount of the periodic penalty payment per day of non-compliance. The statement of findings shall set a time limit of at least four weeks within which the person subject to the proceedings may make written submissions. ESMA shall not be obliged to take into account written submissions received after the expiry of that time limit for deciding on the periodic penalty payment.
## 2.
Once the DRSP or the person subject to the proceedings, has complied with the relevant decision referred to in [[2014R0600_EN.38i#1|Article 38i(1) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014]], a periodic penalty payment shall no longer be imposed.
## 3.
A decision referred to in [[2014R0600_EN.38i#1|Article 38i(1) of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014]] shall indicate the legal basis and the reasons for the decision, the amount and the starting date of the periodic penalty payment.
## 4.
ESMA may invite the person subject to the proceedings to attend an oral hearing. The person subject to the proceedings may be assisted by a counsel of their choice. Oral hearings shall not be public.