---
surnom_texte_lvl1: PRIIPS
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2014R1286
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014R1286
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2014R1286_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2014R1286_FR.6]]. Open the [[CELEX_02014R1286-20240109_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]].
>
> [[2014R1286_EN.5|Article 5 – 1.]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2014R1286_EN.7|Article 7 – 1.]]
>



# Article 6 - 1.


The key information document shall constitute pre-contractual information. It shall be accurate, fair, clear and not misleading. It shall provide key information and shall be consistent with any binding contractual documents, with the relevant parts of the offer documents and with the terms and conditions of the PRIIP.
## 2.
The key information document shall be a stand-alone document, clearly separate from marketing materials. It shall not contain cross-references to marketing material. It may contain cross-references to other documents including a prospectus where applicable, and only where the cross-reference is related to the information required to be included in the key information document by this Regulation.
## 3.
By way of derogation from paragraph 2, where a PRIIP offers the retail investor a range of options for investments, such that all information required in [[2014R1286_EN.8#3|Article 8(3)]] with regard to each underlying investment option cannot be provided within a single, concise stand-alone document, the key information document shall provide at least a generic description of the underlying investment options and state where and how more detailed pre-contractual information documentation relating to the investment products backing the underlying investment options can be found.
## 4.
The key information document shall be drawn up as a short document written in a concise manner and of a maximum of three sides of A4-sized paper when printed, which promotes comparability. It shall:
### (a)
be presented and laid out in a way that is easy to read, using characters of readable size;
### (b)
focus on the key information that retail investors need;
### (c)
be clearly expressed and written in language and a style that communicate in a way that facilitates the understanding of the information, in particular, in language that is clear, succinct and comprehensible.
## 5.
Where colours are used in the key information document, they shall not diminish the comprehensibility of the information if the key information document is printed or photocopied in black and white.
## 6.
Where the corporate branding or logo of the PRIIP manufacturer or the group to which it belongs is used in the key information document, it shall not distract the retail investor from the information contained in the document or obscure the text.