---
surnom_texte_lvl1: PRIIPS
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2014R1286
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014R1286
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2014R1286_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2014R1286_FR.30]]. Open the [[CELEX_02014R1286-20240109_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]].
>
> [[2014R1286_EN.29a|Article 29a – Accessibility of information on the European single access point]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2014R1286_EN.31|Article 31 – Where the Commission adopts regulatory technical standards pursuant to Article 8(5), Article 10(2) or Article 13(5) which are the same as the draft regulatory technical standards submitted by the ESAs, the period during which the European Parliament and the Council may object to those regulatory technical standards shall, by way of derogation from the second subparagraph of Article 13(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010, of Regulation (EU) No 1094/2010 and of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010, and in order to take into account the complexity and volume of the issues covered therein, be two months from the date of notification. At the initiative of the European Parliament or the Council that period may be extended by one month.]]
>



# Article 30 - 1.


The power to adopt delegated acts is conferred on the Commission subject to the conditions laid down in this Article.
## 2.
The power to adopt delegated acts referred to in [[2014R1286_EN.8#4|Article 8(4)]], Article 16(8) and [[2014R1286_EN.17#7|Article 17(7)]] shall be conferred on the Commission for a period of three years from 30 December 2014. The Commission shall draw up a report in respect of the delegation of power not later than nine months before the end of the three-year period. The delegation of power shall be tacitly extended for periods of an identical duration, unless the European Parliament or the Council opposes such extension not later than three months before the end of each period.
## 3.
The delegation of power referred to in [[2014R1286_EN.8#4|Article 8(4)]], Article 16(8) and [[2014R1286_EN.17#7|Article 17(7)]] may be revoked at any time by the European Parliament or by the Council. A decision to revoke shall put an end to the delegation of the power specified in that decision. It shall take effect the day following the publication of the decision in the Official Journal of the European Union or at a later date specified therein. It shall not affect the validity of any delegated acts already in force.
## 4.
As soon as it adopts a delegated act, the Commission shall notify it simultaneously to the European Parliament and to the Council.
## 5.
A delegated act adopted pursuant to [[2014R1286_EN.8#4|Article 8(4)]], [[2014R1286_EN.16#8|Article 16(8)]] or [[2014R1286_EN.17#7|Article 17(7)]] shall enter into force only if no objection has been expressed either by the European Parliament or the Council within a period of three months of notification of that act to the European Parliament and the Council or if, before the expiry of that period, the European Parliament and the Council have both informed the Commission that they will not object. That period shall be extended by three months at the initiative of the European Parliament or of the Council.