---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MICA
surnom_texte_lvl2: MICA297
texte: 2025R0297
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2023R1114
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2025R0297_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2025R0297_FR.6]]. Back to [[2023R1114_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2025/0297/oj).
>
> [[2025R0297_EN.5|Article 5 – Conclusion of the written agreement referred to in Article 119(6) of Regulation (EU) 2023/1114]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2025R0297_EN.7|Article 7 – Establishment and update of a contact list]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2023R1114_EN.119#8]]# Article 6 - Participation in the college

## 1.
Each member of the college shall designate one participant, selected as the most appropriate taking into account the topics discussed and objectives pursued, to attend the meetings or activities of the college and to represent that member of the college in the college meetings. Each member of the college may designate one alternate, with the exception of EBA, which shall designate one representative and may ask additional participants to attend, without voting rights, in college meetings or activities.
## 2.
Where a competent authority has the right to be a member of the college in two or more of the cases referred to in [[2025R0297_EN.119#2|Article 119(2)]], points (c) to (h), (j), and (l), of Regulation (EU) 2023/1114, or where several authorities from the same third country have the right to be members of the college under [[2025R0297_EN.119#2|Article 119(2)]], point (m), of that Regulation, those authorities may designate one additional participant to attend, without voting rights, the meetings or activities of the college and may designate one alternate for that participant.
## 3.
Where there are several members of the college per Member State, those college members shall inform the chair of the college which one of them will be the voting member.
## 4.
Based on the agenda, or particular item thereof, topics and objectives of a college meeting or activity, the chair of the college may invite other authorities that are not members of the college to attend that meeting or activity. The chair of the college shall decide what information is relevant for those authorities and involve them in the college meeting or activity accordingly. These authorities shall have no voting rights. The chair of the college shall inform all members of the college accordingly, without undue delay.
## 5.
For the adoption of an opinion of the college or of a recommendation included in an opinion of the college in accordance with [[2025R0297_EN.120#1|Article 120(1)]] and (2) of Regulation (EU) 2023/1114, a quorum of half of the voting members of the college shall be required. If such quorum is not reached, the chair of the college may convene an extraordinary meeting at which decisions may be taken without quorum.
## 6.
The majority referred to in [[2023R1114_EN.120#3|Article 120(3) of Regulation (EU) 1114/2023]] shall consist of a simple majority of the members of the college who have a voting right in a meeting of that college. A simple majority shall also be deemed to have been achieved where more members who have a voting right vote in favour of a proposal than those who vote against it. Abstentions shall not be counted as approvals or as objections, and shall not be considered when calculating the number of votes cast.