---
surnom_texte_lvl1: AIFMD
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2011L0061
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2011L0061
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2011L0061_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2011L0061_FR.22]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02011L0061-20250117).
>
> [[2011L0061_EN.21|Article 21 – Depositary]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2011L0061_EN.23|Article 23 – Disclosure to investors]]
>

> [!tip]- References LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 2 reference(s): [[2013R0231_EN.104]], [[2013R0231_EN.105]], [[2013R0231_EN.109]], [[2013R0231_EN.103]], [[2013R0231_EN.111]], [[2013R0231_EN.107]], [[2013R0231_EN.108]], [[2013R0231_EN.106]], [[2013R0231_EN.110]]

> [!example]- 💡 Transposition EU <=> FR
> Transpo FR reference(s): [[D214-32-5]], [[L214-24-19]]

# Article 22 - Annual report

## 1.
An AIFM shall, for each of the EU AIFs it manages and for each of the AIFs it markets in the Union, make available an annual report for each financial year no later than 6 months following the end of the financial year. The annual report shall be provided to investors on request. The annual report shall be made available to the competent authorities of the home Member State of the AIFM, and, where applicable, the home Member State of the AIF.

Where the AIF is required to make public an annual financial report in accordance with Directive 2004/109/EC only such additional information referred to in paragraph 2 needs to be provided to investors on request, either separately or as an additional part of the annual financial report. In the latter case the annual financial report shall be made public no later than 4 months following the end of the financial year.
## 2.
The annual report shall at least contain the following:
### (a)
a balance-sheet or a statement of assets and liabilities;
### (b)
an income and expenditure account for the financial year;
### (c)
a report on the activities of the financial year;
### (d)
any material changes in the information listed in [[2011L0061_EN.23|Article 23]] during the financial year covered by the report;
### (e)
the total amount of remuneration for the financial year, split into fixed and variable remuneration, paid by the AIFM to its staff, and number of beneficiaries, and, where relevant, carried interest paid by the AIF;
### (f)
the aggregate amount of remuneration broken down by senior management and members of staff of the AIFM whose actions have a material impact on the risk profile of the AIF.
## 3.
The accounting information given in the annual report shall be prepared in accordance with the accounting standards of the home Member State of the AIF or in accordance with the accounting standards of the third country where the AIF is established and with the accounting rules laid down in the AIF rules or instruments of incorporation.
The accounting information given in the annual report shall be audited by one or more persons empowered by law to audit accounts in accordance with Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2006 on statutory audits of annual accounts and consolidated accounts. The auditor’s report, including any qualifications, shall be reproduced in full in the annual report.

By way of derogation from the second subparagraph, Member States may permit AIFMs marketing non-EU AIFs to subject the annual reports of those AIFs to an audit meeting international auditing standards in force in the country where the AIF has its registered office.
## 4.
The Commission shall adopt, by means of delegated acts in accordance with [[2011L0061_EN.56|Article 56]] and subject to the conditions of Articles [[2011L0061_EN.57|57]] and [[2011L0061_EN.58|58]], measures specifying the content and format of the annual report. Those measures shall be adapted to the type of AIF to which they apply.