---
surnom_texte_lvl1: AIFMD
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2011L0061
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2011L0061
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2011L0061_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2011L0061_FR.38]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02011L0061-20250117).
>
> [[2011L0061_EN.37|Article 37 – Authorisation of non-EU AIFMs intending to manage EU AIFs and/or market AIFs managed by them in the Union in accordance with Article 39 or 40]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2011L0061_EN.39|Article 39 – Conditions for the marketing in the Union with a passport of EU AIFs managed by a non-EU AIFM]]
>

# Article 38 - Peer review of authorisation and supervision of non-EU AIFMs

## 1.
ESMA shall, on an annual basis, conduct a peer review analysis of the supervisory activities of the competent authorities in relation to the authorisation and the supervision of non-EU AIFMs under Articles [[2011L0061_EN.37|37]], [[2011L0061_EN.39|39]], [[2011L0061_EN.40|40]] and [[2011L0061_EN.41|41]], to further enhance consistency in supervisory outcomes, in accordance with [[2010R1095_EN.30|Article 30 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010]].
## 2.
By 22 July 2013, ESMA shall develop methods to allow for objective assessment and comparison between the authorities reviewed.
## 3.
In particular, the peer review analysis shall include an assessment of:
### (a)
the degree of convergence in supervisory practices achieved in the authorisation and supervision of non-EU AIFMs;
### (b)
the extent to which the supervisory practice achieves the objectives set out in this Directive;
### (c)
the effectiveness and the degree of convergence achieved with regard to the enforcement of this Directive and its implementing measures and the regulatory and implementing technical standards developed by ESMA pursuant to this Directive, including administrative measures and penalties imposed against non-EU AIFMs where this Directive has not been complied with.
## 4.
On the basis of the conclusions of the peer review, ESMA may issue guidelines and recommendations pursuant to [[2010R1095_EN.16|Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010]], with a view to establishing consistent, efficient and effective supervisory practices of non-EU AIFMs.
## 5.
The competent authorities shall make every effort to comply with those guidelines and recommendations.
## 6.
Within 2 months of the issuance of a guideline or recommendation, each competent authority shall confirm whether it complies or intends to comply with that guideline or recommendation. In the event that a competent authority does not comply or intend to comply, it shall inform ESMA, stating its reasons.
## 7.
ESMA shall publish the fact that a competent authority does not comply or intend to comply with that guideline or recommendation. ESMA may also decide, on a case-by-case basis, to publish the reasons provided by the competent authority for not complying with that guideline or recommendation. The competent authority shall receive advance notice of such a publication.
## 8.
In the report referred to in [[2010R1095_EN.43#5|Article 43(5) of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010]], ESMA shall inform the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission of the guidelines and recommendations issued pursuant to this Article, stating which competent authorities have not complied with them, and outlining how ESMA intends to ensure that those competent authorities comply with its recommendations and guidelines in the future.
## 9.
The Commission shall duly take those reports into account in its review of this Directive in accordance with [[2011L0061_EN.69|Article 69]] and in any subsequent evaluation that it conducts.
## 10.
ESMA shall make the best practices that can be identified from peer reviews publicly available. In addition, all other results of peer reviews may be made public, subject to the agreement of the competent authority being the subject of the peer review.