---
surnom_texte_lvl1: AIFMD
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2011L0061
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2011L0061
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2011L0061_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2011L0061_FR.14]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02011L0061-20250117).
>
> [[2011L0061_EN.13|Article 13 – Remuneration]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2011L0061_EN.15|Article 15 – Risk management]]
>

> [!tip]- References LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 2 reference(s): [[2013R0231_EN.37]], [[2013R0231_EN.36]], [[2013R0231_EN.35]], [[2013R0231_EN.31]], [[2013R0231_EN.32]], [[2013R0231_EN.33]], [[2013R0231_EN.34]], [[2013R0231_EN.30]]

# Article 14 - Conflicts of interest

## 1.
Member States shall require AIFMs to take all reasonable steps to identify conflicts of interest that arise in the course of managing AIFs between:
### (a)
the AIFM, including its managers, employees or any person directly or indirectly linked to the AIFM by control, and the AIF managed by the AIFM or the investors in that AIF;
### (b)
the AIF or the investors in that AIF, and another AIF or the investors in that AIF;
### (c)
the AIF or the investors in that AIF, and another client of the AIFM;
### (d)
the AIF or the investors in that AIF, and a UCITS managed by the AIFM or the investors in that UCITS; or
### (e)
two clients of the AIFM.

AIFMs shall maintain and operate effective organisational and administrative arrangements with a view to taking all reasonable steps designed to identify, prevent, manage and monitor conflicts of interest in order to prevent them from adversely affecting the interests of the AIFs and their investors.

AIFMs shall segregate, within their own operating environment, tasks and responsibilities which may be regarded as incompatible with each other or which may potentially generate systematic conflicts of interest. AIFMs shall assess whether their operating conditions may involve any other material conflicts of interest and disclose them to the investors of the AIFs.
## 2.
Where organisational arrangements made by the AIFM to identify, prevent, manage and monitor conflicts of interest are not sufficient to ensure, with reasonable confidence, that risks of damage to investors’ interests will be prevented, the AIFM shall clearly disclose the general nature or sources of conflicts of interest to the investors before undertaking business on their behalf, and develop appropriate policies and procedures.
## 3.
Where the AIFM on behalf of an AIF uses the services of a prime broker, the terms shall be set out in a written contract. In particular any possibility of transfer and reuse of AIF assets shall be provided for in that contract and shall comply with the AIF rules or instruments of incorporation. The contract shall provide that the depositary be informed of the contract.

AIFMs shall exercise due skill, care and diligence in the selection and appointment of prime brokers with whom a contract is to be concluded.
## 4.
The Commission shall adopt, by means of delegated acts in accordance with [[2011L0061_EN.56|Article 56]] and subject to the conditions of Articles [[2011L0061_EN.57|57]] and [[2011L0061_EN.58|58]], measures specifying:
### (a)
the types of conflicts of interest as referred to in paragraph 1;
### (b)
the reasonable steps AIFMs are expected to take in terms of structures and organisational and administrative procedures in order to identify, prevent, manage, monitor and disclose conflicts of interest.