---
surnom_texte_lvl1: CCPRRR
surnom_texte_lvl2: MoU college
texte: 2023R1192
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2021R0023
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2023R1192_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2023R1192_FR.6]]. Back to [[2021R0023_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32023R1192).
>
> [[2023R1192_EN.5|Article 5 – Content of written arrangements and procedures for the functioning of the resolution college]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2023R1192_EN.7|Article 7 – Resolution college meetings and other activities]]
>



# Article 6 - Establishment and update of written arrangements and procedures for the functioning of the resolution college

## 1.
The resolution authority of the CCP shall prepare its proposal for the written arrangements and procedures for the functioning of the resolution college in accordance with [[2023R1192_EN.5|Article 5]] of this Regulation.
## 2.
The resolution authority of the CCP shall communicate its proposal to the resolution college for consultation, inviting the members to provide their opinion and indicating the deadline for the submission of such opinions.
## 3.
Where the members of the resolution college referred to in paragraph 2 do not submit any opinions within the deadline, the resolution authority of the CCP shall proceed with the adoption of the written arrangements and procedures by the resolution college.
Where the members of the resolution college submit opinions regarding the proposal for the written arrangements and procedures pursuant to paragraph 2, they shall submit those opinions, together with a thorough explanation of the comments and suggestions provided to the resolution authority of the CCP within the deadline.
## 4.
The resolution authority of the CCP shall consider the opinions of the members of the resolution college and reason its decision when it does not take those opinions into account; and it shall proceed with the adoption of the written arrangements and procedures.
## 5.
Upon finalisation, the resolution authority of the CCP shall communicate the written arrangements and procedures for the functioning of the resolution college to the members of the resolution college.
## 6.
The resolution authority of the CCP shall review and update the written arrangements and procedures for the functioning of the resolution college at least annually and after any substantive changes in the composition of the resolution college.
## 7.
While updating the written arrangements and procedures for the functioning of the resolution college, the resolution authority of the CCP and the other members of the resolution college shall follow the procedure set out in paragraphs 1 to 6.
## 8.
All resolution college members and observers shall be bound by the written arrangements and procedures adopted in accordance with this Article.