---
surnom_texte_lvl1: UCITS
surnom_texte_lvl2: RTS 18a(5)
texte: 2026R0466
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2009L0065
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2026R0466_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2026R0466_FR.4]]. Back to [[2009L0065_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2026/0466/oj).
>
> [[2026R0466_EN.3|Article 3 – Extension of notice periods]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2026R0466_EN.5|Article 5 – Swing pricing]]
>

# Article 4 - Redemption fees

## 1.
The predetermined range of redemption fees shall take into account the estimated explicit transaction costs. Where appropriate to the investment strategy of the UCITS, the predetermined range of redemption fees shall also take into account the implicit transaction costs, including any significant market impact of asset sales to meet those redemptions. Those implicit transaction costs shall be estimated on a best effort basis.
## 2.
Redemption fees shall be expressed as a percentage of the gross redemption orders or as a monetary value, or a combination of both. The level of redemption fees may vary in accordance with the size of the redemption order.
## 3.
For the purposes of paragraph 1 of this Article and Articles [[2026R0466_EN.5|5]], [[2026R0466_EN.6|6]] and [[2026R0466_EN.7|7]], explicit transaction costs shall mean costs that are directly borne by a UCITS for its acquisition or disposal of assets that are stable in amount and quantifiable in advance of the transaction. Those costs may include brokerage fees, trading levies, taxes and settlement fees.
Implicit transaction costs shall mean costs borne indirectly by the UCITS upon acquisition or disposal of assets, that primarily arise from the bid-ask spread and market impact. Those implicit transaction costs may vary depending on the type of underlying assets and market conditions.