---
surnom_texte_lvl1: UCITS
surnom_texte_lvl2: RTS 18a(5)
texte: 2026R0466
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2009L0065
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2026R0466_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2026R0466_FR.7]]. Back to [[2009L0065_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2026/0466/oj).
>
> [[2026R0466_EN.6|Article 6 – Dual pricing]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2026R0466_EN.8|Article 8 – Redemptions in kind]]
>

# Article 7 - Anti-dilution levy

## 1.
Anti-dilution levies shall include the estimated explicit transaction costs referred to in [[2026R0466_EN.4#3|Article 4(3)]], first subparagraph. Where appropriate to the investment strategy of the UCITS, anti-dilution levies shall also include the implicit transaction costs referred to in [[2026R0466_EN.4#3|Article 4(3)]], second subparagraph, including any significant market impact of asset purchases or sales, to meet those subscriptions or redemptions. Those implicit transaction costs shall be estimated on a best effort basis.
## 2.
Anti-dilution levies shall be expressed as either of the following:
### (a)
a percentage of the subscription or redemption orders;
### (b)
a monetary value.
## 3.
A UCITS may activate anti-dilution levies where on a given dealing date:
### (a)
the aggregate amount of redemption orders exceeds that of subscription orders, resulting in net redemptions;
### (b)
the aggregate amount of subscription orders exceeds that of redemption orders, resulting in net subscriptions.

For the purposes of point (a), the anti-dilution levy shall be deducted from the amount paid to redeeming investors.

For the purposes of point (b), the anti-dilution levy shall be charged to subscribing investors.