---
surnom_texte_lvl1: UCITS
surnom_texte_lvl2: RTS 18a(5)
texte: 2026R0466
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2009L0065
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2026R0466_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2026R0466_FR.5]]. Back to [[2009L0065_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Open the [[OJ_L_202600466_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2026/0466/oj).
>
> [[2026R0466_EN.4|Article 4 – Redemption fees]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2026R0466_EN.6|Article 6 – Dual pricing]]
>



# Article 5 - Swing pricing

## 1.
The swing factor shall include the estimated explicit transaction costs as referred to in [[2026R0466_EN.4#3|Article 4(3)]], first subparagraph. Where appropriate to the investment strategy of the UCITS, the swing factor shall also include the implicit transaction costs referred to in [[2026R0466_EN.4#3|Article 4(3)]], second subparagraph, including any significant market impact of asset purchases or sales to meet those subscriptions or redemptions. Those implicit transaction costs shall be estimated on a best effort basis.
## 2.
The swing factor shall be expressed as a percentage of the net asset value of the units or shares of the UCITS.
## 3.
A UCITS may apply swing pricing where there is a difference between the redemption orders and the subscription orders (‘full swing’) or where the difference exceeds a predefined activation threshold (‘partial swing’). In either case:
### (a)
where the difference between the redemption orders and the subscription orders for a given dealing date results in net redemptions, the swing factor shall be deducted from the net asset value of the units or shares of the UCITS;
### (b)
where the difference between the redemption orders and the subscriptions orders for a given dealing date results in net subscriptions, the swing factor shall be added to the net asset value of the units or shares of the UCITS.
## 4.
Swing pricing may include different swing factors corresponding to different activation thresholds.