---
surnom_texte_lvl1: EuSEF
surnom_texte_lvl2: EuSEF0594
texte: 2014R0594
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2013R0346
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
# ANNEX I - Instructions:
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2014R0594_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2014R0594_FR.I]]. Back to [[2013R0346_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Link to the [[CELEX_32014R0594_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32014R0594).
>
> [[2014R0594_EN.4|Article 4 – Entry into force]] ⬅️ | ➡️ *Retour au [[2014R0594_EN.0|sommaire]]*
>



Text of image
Notification of registration by of EuSEF manager or update of information already notified
The notifies that:
The,
with the following contact details
is registered by in accordance with [[2013R0346_EN.15#2|Article 15(2) of Regulation (EU) No 346/2013]] to manage the funds indicated in the table below. The manager intends to market the EuSEF in the Member States indicated in the table below.

Name of the EuSEF

Domicile

Host Member States

Instructions:

Please indicate if you are notifying amendments to information already provided in a previous notification: Yes No

If yes, please specify the information that you would like to amend:

Addition of a new EuSEF.

Addition of a new domicile for the establishment of a EuSEF.

Addition of a new Member State where the manager intends to market the EuSEF.
Removal from the national register of EuSEF managers in accordance with Article 22(2)(b) of the EuSEF Regulation.
 If this is the case, please replace the text after the address of the manager with the following text: ‘has been removed from the national register of EuSEF managers in accordance with Article 22(2)(b) of the EuSEF Regulation’.