---
surnom_texte_lvl1: UCITS
surnom_texte_lvl2: DAC 12(3)a
texte: 2010L0043
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2009L0065
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2010L0043_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2010L0043_FR.23]]. Back to [[2009L0065_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Open the [[CELEX_02010L0043-20220801_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02010L0043-20220801).
>
> [[2010L0043_EN.22|Article 22 – Duty to act in the best interests of UCITS and their unit-holders]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2010L0043_EN.24|Article 24 – Reporting obligations in respect of execution of subscription and redemption orders]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2009L0065_EN.14#1]]

# Article 23 - Due diligence requirements

## 1.
Member States shall require management companies to ensure a high level of diligence in the selection and ongoing monitoring of investments, in the best interests of UCITS and the integrity of the market.
## 2.
Member States shall require management companies to ensure they have adequate knowledge and understanding of the assets in which the UCITS are invested.
## 3.
Member States shall require management companies to establish written policies and procedures on due diligence and implement effective arrangements for ensuring that investment decisions on behalf of the UCITS are carried out in compliance with the objectives, investment strategy and risk limits of the UCITS.
## 4.
Member States shall require management companies when implementing their risk management policy, and where it is appropriate after taking into account the nature of a foreseen investment, to formulate forecasts and perform analyses concerning the investment’s contribution to the UCITS portfolio composition, liquidity and risk and reward profile before carrying out the investment. The analyses must only be carried out on the basis of reliable and up-to-date information, both in quantitative and qualitative terms.

Management companies shall exercise due skill, care and diligence when entering into, managing or terminating any arrangements with third parties in relation to the performance of risk management activities. Before entering into such arrangements, management companies shall take the necessary steps in order to verify that the third party has the ability and capacity to perform the risk management activities reliably, professionally and effectively. The management company shall establish methods for the on-going assessment of the standard of performance of the third party.
## 5.
Member States shall require that management companies take into account *[[2010L0043_EN.3#11.|sustainability risks]]* when complying with the requirements set out in paragraphs 1 to 4.
## 6.
Member States shall ensure that where management companies, or, where applicable, investment companies, consider principal adverse impacts of investment decisions on *[[2010L0043_EN.3#12.|sustainability factors]]* as described in [[2010L0043_EN.4#1|Article 4(1)]], point (a), of Regulation (EU) 2019/2088, or as required by paragraphs 3 or 4 of Article 4 of that Regulation, those management companies or investment companies take into account such principal adverse impacts when complying with the requirements set out in paragraphs 1 to 4 of this Article.