---
surnom_texte_lvl1: UCITS
surnom_texte_lvl2: DAC 12(3)a
texte: 2010L0043
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2009L0065
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2010L0043_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2010L0043_FR.43]]. Back to [[2009L0065_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02010L0043-20220801).
>
> [[2010L0043_EN.42|Article 42 – Commitment approach]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2010L0043_EN.44|Article 44 – Procedures for the assessment of the value of OTC derivatives]]
>

> [!tip]- References LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2009L0065_EN.51#1]]# Article 43 - Counterparty risk and issuer concentration

## 1.
Member States shall require management companies to ensure that *[[2010L0043_EN.3#7.|counterparty risk]]* arising from an over-the-counter (OTC) financial derivative instrument is subject to the limits set out in Article 52 of Directive 2009/65/EC.
## 2.
When calculating the UCITS exposure to a counterparty in accordance with the limits as referred to in Article 52(1) of Directive 2009/65/EC, management companies shall use the positive mark-to-market value of the OTC derivative contract with that counterparty.

Management companies may net the derivative positions of a UCITS with the same counterparty, provided that they are able to legally enforce netting agreements with the counterparty on behalf of the UCITS. Netting shall only be permissible with respect to OTC derivative instruments with the same counterparty and not in relation to any other exposures the UCITS may have with that same counterparty.
## 3.
Member States may allow management companies to reduce the UCITS exposure to a counterparty of an OTC derivative transaction through the receipt of collateral. Collateral received shall be sufficiently liquid so that it can be sold quickly at a price that is close to its pre-sale valuation.
## 4.
Member States shall require management companies to take collateral into account in calculating exposure to *[[2010L0043_EN.3#7.|counterparty risk]]* as referred to in Article 52(1) of Directive 2009/65/EC when the management company passes collateral to OTC counterparty on behalf of the UCITS. Collateral passed may be taken into account on a net basis only if the management company is able to legally enforce netting arrangements with this counterparty on behalf of the UCITS.
## 5.
Member States shall require management companies to calculate issuer concentration limits as referred to in Article 52 of Directive 2009/65/EC on the basis of the underlying exposure created through the use of financial derivative instruments pursuant to the commitment approach.
## 6.
With respect to the exposure arising from OTC derivatives transactions as referred to in Article 52(2) of Directive 2009/65/EC, Member States shall require management companies to include in the calculation any exposure to OTC derivative *[[2010L0043_EN.3#7.|counterparty risk]]*.