---
surnom_texte_lvl1: UCITS
surnom_texte_lvl2: DAC 12(3)a
texte: 2010L0043
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2009L0065
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2010L0043_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2010L0043_FR.25]]. Back to [[2009L0065_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02010L0043-20220801).
>
> [[2010L0043_EN.24|Article 24 – Reporting obligations in respect of execution of subscription and redemption orders]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2010L0043_EN.26|Article 26 – Placing orders to deal on behalf of UCITS with other entities for execution]]
>

> [!tip]- References LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2009L0065_EN.14#1]]

# Article 25 - Execution of decisions to deal on behalf of the managed UCITS

## 1.
Member States shall require management companies to act in the best interests of the UCITS they manage when executing decisions to deal on behalf of the managed UCITS in the context of the management of their portfolios.
## 2.
For the purposes of paragraph 1, Member States shall ensure that management companies take all reasonable steps to obtain the best possible result for the UCITS, taking into account price, costs, speed, likelihood of execution and settlement, order size and nature, or any other consideration relevant to the execution of the order. The relative importance of such factors shall be determined by reference to the following criteria:
### (a)
the objectives, investment policy and risks specific to the UCITS, as indicated in the prospectus or as the case may be in the fund rules or articles of association of the UCITS;
### (b)
the characteristics of the order;
### (c)
the characteristics of the financial instruments that are the subject of that order;
### (d)
the characteristics of the execution venues to which that order can be directed.
## 3.
Member States shall require management companies to establish and implement effective arrangements for complying with the obligation referred to in paragraph 2. In particular, management companies shall establish and implement a policy to allow them to obtain, for UCITS orders, the best possible result in accordance with paragraph 2.

Management companies shall obtain the prior consent of the investment company on the execution policy. The management company shall make available appropriate information to *[[2010L0043_EN.3#2.|unit-holders]]* on the policy established in accordance with this Article and on any material changes to their policy.
## 4.
Management companies shall monitor on a regular basis the effectiveness of their arrangements and policy for the execution of orders in order to identify and, where appropriate, correct any deficiencies.

In addition, management companies shall review the execution policy on an annual basis. A review shall also be carried out whenever a material change occurs that affects the management company’s ability to continue to obtain the best possible result for the managed UCITS.
## 5.
Management companies shall be able to demonstrate that they have executed orders on behalf of the UCITS in accordance with the management company’s execution policy.