---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MIF2
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2014L0065
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014L0065
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2014L0065_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2014L0065_FR.93]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02014L0065-20240328).
>
> [[2014L0065_EN.92|Article 92 – Amendments to Directive 2011/61/EU]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2014L0065_EN.94|Article 94 – Repeal]]
>



# Article 93 - Transposition

## 1.
Member States shall adopt and publish, by
3 July 2017

, the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive. They shall forthwith communicate to the Commission the text of those measures.

Member States shall apply those measures from 3 January 2018.

When Member States adopt those measures, they shall contain a reference to this Directive or be accompanied by such a reference on the occasion of their official publication. Member States shall determine how such reference is to be made. They shall also include a statement that references in existing laws, regulations and administrative provisions to the directives repealed by this Directive shall be construed as references to this Directive. Member States shall determine how such reference is to be made and how that statement is to be formulated.
## 2.
Member States shall apply the measures referred to in [[2014L0065_EN.92|Article 92]] from 3 July 2015.
## 3.
Member States shall communicate to the Commission and to ESMA the text of the main provisions of national law which they adopt in the field covered by this Directive.
## 3a.
By 23 March 2023, Member States shall adopt and publish the provisions necessary to comply with point (15) of [[2014L0065_EN.4#1|Article 4(1)]] and shall communicate them to the Commission. They shall apply those provisions from 23 March 2023.

By way of derogation from the first subparagraph, Member States that cannot adopt provisions necessary to comply with point (15) of [[2014L0065_EN.4#1|Article 4(1)]] by 23 March 2023, because their legislative procedures take more than nine months, shall benefit from an extension of a maximum of six months from 23 March 2023, provided that they notify the Commission of their need to make use of that extension by 23 March 2023.