---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MIF2
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2014L0065
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014L0065
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2014L0065_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2014L0065_FR.80]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02014L0065-20240328).
>
> [[2014L0065_EN.79|Article 79 – Obligation to cooperate]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2014L0065_EN.81|Article 81 – Exchange of information]]
>



> [!example]- 💡 Transposition EU <=> FR
> Transpo FR reference(s): [[L632-2]], [[L632-10]]

# Article 80 - Cooperation between competent authorities in supervisory activities, for on-site verifications or investigations

## 1.
A *[[2014L0065_EN.4#(26)|competent authority]]* of one Member State may request the cooperation of the *[[2014L0065_EN.4#(26)|competent authority]]* of another Member State in a supervisory activity or for an on-the-spot verification or in an investigation. In the case of *[[2014L0065_EN.4#(1)|investment firms]]* that are remote members or participants of a *[[2014L0065_EN.4#(21)|regulated market]]* the *[[2014L0065_EN.4#(26)|competent authority]]* of the *[[2014L0065_EN.4#(21)|regulated market]]* may choose to address them directly, in which case it shall inform the *[[2014L0065_EN.4#(26)|competent authority]]* of the *[[2014L0065_EN.4#(55)|home Member State]]* of the remote member or participant accordingly.

Where a *[[2014L0065_EN.4#(26)|competent authority]]* receives a request with respect to an on-the-spot verification or an investigation, it shall, within the framework of its powers:
### (a)
carry out the verifications or investigations itself;
### (b)
allow the requesting authority to carry out the verification or investigation;
### (c)
allow auditors or experts to carry out the verification or investigation.
## 2.
With the objective of converging supervisory practices, ESMA may participate in the activities of the colleges of supervisors, including on-site verifications or investigations, carried out jointly by two or more competent authorities in accordance with [[2010R1095_EN.21|Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010]].
## 3.
ESMA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards to specify the information to be exchanged between competent authorities when cooperating in supervisory activities, on-the-spot-verifications, and investigations.

ESMA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to the Commission by 3 July 2015.

Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in accordance with Articles [[2014L0065_EN.10|10]] to 14 of Regulation. (EU) No 1095/2010.
## 4.
ESMA shall develop draft implementing technical standards to establish standard forms, templates and procedures for competent authorities to cooperate in supervisory activities, on-site verifications, and investigations.

ESMA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards to the Commission by 3 January 2016.

Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the implementing technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in accordance with [[2010R1095_EN.15|Article 15 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010]].