---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MIF2
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2014L0065
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014L0065
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2014L0065_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2014L0065_FR.71]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02014L0065-20240328).
>
> [[2014L0065_EN.70|Article 70 – Sanctions for infringements]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2014L0065_EN.72|Article 72 – Exercise of supervisory powers and powers to impose sanctions]]
>



> [!example]- 💡 Transposition EU <=> FR
> Transpo FR reference(s): [[L631-1]], [[L612-39]], [[L632-6-1]], [[L612-35-1]], [[L621-15]]

# Article 71 - Publication of decisions

## 1.
Member States shall provide that competent authorities publish any decision imposing an administrative sanction or measure for infringements of Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 or of the national provisions adopted in the implementation of this Directive on their official websites without undue delay after the person on whom the sanction was imposed has been informed of that decision. The publication shall include at least information on the type and nature of the infringement and the identity of the persons responsible. That obligation does not apply to decisions imposing measures that are of an investigatory nature.

However, where the publication of the identity of the legal persons or of the personal data of the natural persons is considered by the *[[2014L0065_EN.4#(26)|competent authority]]* to be disproportionate following a case-by-case *[[2014L0065_EN.4#2.|assessment]]* conducted on the proportionality of the publication of such data, or where publication jeopardises the stability of financial markets or an on-going investigation, Member States shall ensure that competent authorities shall either:
### (a)
defer the publication of the decision to impose the sanction or measure until the moment where the reasons for non-publication cease to exist;
### (b)
publish the decision to impose the sanction or measure on an anonymous basis in a manner which complies with national law, if such anonymous publication ensures an effective protection of the personal data concerned;
### (c)
not publish the decision to impose a sanction or measure at all in the event that the options set out in points (a) and (b) are considered to be insufficient to ensure:
#### (i)
that the stability of financial markets would not be put in jeopardy;
#### (ii)
the proportionality of the publication of such decisions with regard to measures which are deemed to be of a minor nature.

In the case of a decision to publish a sanction or measure on an anonymous basis, the publication of the relevant data may be postponed for a reasonable period of time if it is envisaged that within that period the reasons for anonymous publication shall cease to exist.
## 2.
Where the decision to impose a sanction or measure is subject to appeal before the relevant judicial or other authorities, competent authorities shall also publish, immediately, on their official website such information and any subsequent information on the outcome of such appeal. Moreover, any decision annulling a previous decision to impose a sanction or a measure shall also be published.
## 3.
Competent authorities shall ensure that any publication in accordance with this Article shall remain on their official website for a period of at least five years after its publication. Personal data contained in the publication shall only be kept on the official website of the *[[2014L0065_EN.4#(26)|competent authority]]* for the period which is necessary in accordance with the applicable data protection rules.

Competent authorities shall inform ESMA of all administrative sanctions imposed but not published in accordance with point (c) of paragraph 1 including any appeal in relation thereto and the outcome thereof. Member States shall ensure that competent authorities receive information and the final judgement in relation to any criminal sanction imposed and submit it to ESMA. ESMA shall maintain a central database of sanctions communicated to it solely for the purposes of exchanging information between competent authorities. That database shall be accessible to competent authorities only and it shall be updated on the basis of the information provided by the competent authorities.
## 4.
Member States shall provide ESMA annually with aggregated information regarding all sanctions and measures imposed in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2. That obligation does not apply to measures of an investigatory nature. ESMA shall publish that information in an annual report.

Where Member States have chosen, in accordance with [[2014L0065_EN.70|Article 70]], to lay down criminal sanctions for infringements of the provisions referred to in that Article, their competent authorities shall provide ESMA annually with anonymised and aggregated data regarding all criminal investigations undertaken and criminal sanctions imposed. ESMA shall publish data on criminal sanctions imposed in an annual report.
## 5.
Where the *[[2014L0065_EN.4#(26)|competent authority]]* has disclosed an administrative measure, sanction or criminal sanction to the public, it shall, at the same time, report that fact to ESMA.
## 6.
Where a published criminal or administrative sanction relates to an *[[2014L0065_EN.4#(1)|investment firm]]*, *[[2014L0065_EN.4#(18)|market operator]]*, *[[2014L0065_EN.4#(27)|credit institution]]* in relation to *[[2014L0065_EN.4#(2)|investment services and activities]]* or *[[2014L0065_EN.4#(3)|ancillary services]]*, or a *[[2014L0065_EN.4#(30)|branch]]* of *[[2014L0065_EN.4#(57)|third-country firms]]* authorised in accordance with this Directive, or to an APA or ARM authorised in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 600/2014 which has a derogation in accordance with Article 2(3) of that Regulation, ESMA shall add a reference to the published sanction in the relevant register.
## 7.
ESMA shall develop draft implementing technical standards concerning the procedures and forms for submitting information as referred to in this Article.

ESMA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards to the Commission by 3 January 2016.

Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the implementing technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in accordance with [[2010R1095_EN.15|Article 15 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010]].