---
surnom_texte_lvl1: EMIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: Min Data To TR
texte: 2022R1855
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0648
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2022R1855_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2022R1855_FR.1]]. Back to [[2012R0648_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32022R1855).
>
> *Retour au [[2022R1855_EN.0|sommaire]]* ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2022R1855_EN.2|Article 2 – Cleared trades]]
>



# Article 1 - Details to set out in reports pursuant to Article 9(1) and (3) of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012

## 1.
Reports to trade repositories made pursuant to [[2022R1855_EN.9#1|Article 9(1)]] and (3) of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 shall include the complete and accurate details set out in Tables 1, 2 and 3 of the Annex to this Regulation that pertain to the derivative concerned.
Those details shall be reported in a single report.
## 2.
When reporting the conclusion, modification or termination of the derivative, a counterparty shall specify in its report the details of the action type and event type, as described in the fields 151 and 152 in Table 2 of the Annex, to which that conclusion, modification or termination is related.
## 3.
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, where the fields in the Tables 1, 2 and 3 of the Annex do not allow for the effective reporting of the details referred to in paragraph 1, those details shall be reported in separate reports, such as in the case where the derivative contract is composed of a combination of derivative contracts that are negotiated together as the product of a single economic agreement.
Before the reporting deadline, counterparties to a derivative contract composed of a combination of derivative contracts referred to in the first subparagraph shall agree on the number of separate reports to be sent to a trade repository in relation to that derivative contract.

The reporting counterparty shall link the separate reports by an identifier that is unique at the level of the counterparty to the group of derivative reports, in accordance with field 6 in Table 2 of the Annex.
## 4.
Where one report is made on behalf of both counterparties, it shall contain the details set out in Tables 1, 2 and 3 of the Annex in relation to each of the counterparties.
## 5.
Where one counterparty reports the details of a derivative to a trade repository on behalf of the other counterparty, or a third entity reports a contract to a trade repository on behalf of one or both counterparties, the details reported shall include the full set of details that would have been reported had the derivatives been reported to the trade repository by each counterparty separately.