---
surnom_texte_lvl1: BMR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2016R1011
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2016R1011
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2016R1011_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2016R1011_FR.48 decies]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02016R1011-20250117).
>
> [[2016R1011_EN.48h|Article 48h – Disclosure, nature, enforcement and allocation of fines and periodic penalty payments]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2016R1011_EN.48j|Article 48j – Hearing of the persons subject to investigations]]
>

# Article 48i - Procedural rules for taking supervisory measures and imposing fines

## 1.
Where, in carrying out its duties under this Regulation, ESMA finds that there are serious indications of the possible existence of facts liable to constitute one or more of the infringements listed in point (a) of [[2016R1011_EN.42#1|Article 42(1)]], ESMA shall appoint an independent investigation officer within ESMA to investigate the matter. The appointed officer shall not be involved or have been directly or indirectly involved in the supervision of the *[[2016R1011_EN.3#(3)|benchmarks]]* to which the infringement relates and shall perform his or her functions independently from ESMA’s Board of Supervisors.
## 2.
The investigation officer referred to in paragraph 1 shall investigate the alleged infringements, take into account any comments submitted by the persons who are subject to the investigation, and shall submit a complete file with his or her findings to ESMA’s Board of Supervisors.
## 3.
In order to carry out his or her tasks, the investigation officer shall have the power to request information in accordance with [[2016R1011_EN.48b|Article 48b]] and to conduct investigations and on-site inspections in accordance with Articles [[2016R1011_EN.48c|48c]] and [[2016R1011_EN.48d|48d]].
## 4.
Where carrying out those tasks, the investigation officer shall have access to all documents and information that have been gathered by ESMA in its supervisory activities.
## 5.
Upon completion of his or her investigation and before submitting the file with his or her findings to ESMA’s Board of Supervisors, the investigation officer shall give the persons subject to the investigation the opportunity to be heard on the matters being investigated. The investigation officer shall base his or her findings only on facts on which the persons concerned have had the opportunity to comment.
## 6.
The rights of the defence of the persons subject to the investigation shall be fully respected during investigations under this Article.
## 7.
Upon submission of the file with his or her findings to ESMA’s Board of Supervisors, the investigation officer shall notify the persons who are subject to the investigation. The persons subject to the investigation shall be entitled to have access to the file, subject to the legitimate interest of other persons in the protection of their business secrets. The right of access to the file shall not extend to confidential information affecting third parties.
## 8.
On the basis of the file containing the investigation officer’s findings and, when requested by the persons concerned, after having heard those persons in accordance with [[2016R1011_EN.48j|Article 48j]], ESMA shall decide if one or more of the infringements listed in point (a) of [[2016R1011_EN.42#1|Article 42(1)]] has been committed by the persons subject to the investigation and, in such case, shall take a supervisory measure in accordance with [[2016R1011_EN.48e|Article 48e]] and impose a fine in accordance with [[2016R1011_EN.48f|Article 48f]].
## 9.
The investigation officer shall not participate in the deliberations of ESMA’s Board of Supervisors or in any other way intervene in the decision-making process of ESMA’s Board of Supervisors.
## 10.
By 1 October 2021, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with [[2016R1011_EN.49|Article 49]] to specify the rules of procedure for the exercise of the power to impose fines or periodic penalty payments, including provisions on rights of defence, temporal provisions, and the collection of fines or periodic penalty payments, and the limitation periods for the imposition and enforcement of fines and periodic penalty payments.
## 11.
ESMA shall refer matters for criminal prosecution to the relevant national authorities where, in carrying out its tasks under this Regulation, it finds that there are serious indications of the possible existence of facts liable to constitute criminal offences. In addition, ESMA shall refrain from imposing fines or periodic penalty payments where a prior acquittal or conviction arising from an identical fact or facts which are substantially the same has already acquired the force of

res judicata

as the result of criminal proceedings under national law.