---
surnom_texte_lvl1: BMR
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2016R1011
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2016R1011
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2016R1011_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2016R1011_FR.49]]. Open the [[CELEX_02016R1011-20250117_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02016R1011-20250117).
>
> [[2016R1011_EN.48n|Article 48n – Transition measures related to ESMA]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2016R1011_EN.50|Article 50 – Committee procedure]]
>



# Article 49 - Exercise of the delegation

## 1.
The power to adopt delegated acts is conferred on the Commission subject to the conditions laid down in this Article.
## 2.
The power to adopt delegated acts referred to in Articles [[2016R1011_EN.3|3]](2), 13(2a), 19a(2), 19c(1), 20(6), 24(2), 27(2b), 33(7), 51(6) and 54(3) shall be conferred on the Commission for a period of five years from 10 December 2019. The Commission shall draw up a report in respect of the delegation of power no later than 11 March 2024. The delegation of power shall be tacitly extended for further periods of identical duration, unless the European Parliament or the Council opposes such extension not later than three months before the end of each period.
## 2a.
The power to adopt delegated acts referred to in Articles [[2016R1011_EN.30|30]](2a), 30(3a), 48i(10) and 48l(3) shall be conferred on the Commission for an indeterminate period of time from 30 December 2019.
## 2b.
The power to adopt delegated acts referred to in Articles [[2016R1011_EN.18a|18a]](3) and 54(7) shall be conferred on the Commission for an indeterminate period of time from 13 February 2021.
## 3.
The delegation of power referred to in Articles [[2016R1011_EN.3|3]](2), 13(2a), 19a(2), 19c(1), 20(6), 24(2), 27(2b), 30(2a), 30(3a), 33(7), 48i(10), 48l(3), 51(6) and 54(3) may be revoked at any time by the European Parliament or by the Council. A decision to revoke shall put an end to the delegation of power specified in that decision. It shall take effect on the day following the publication of the decision in the Official Journal of the European Union or on a later date specified therein. It shall not affect the validity of any delegated acts already in force.
## 3a.
The delegation of power referred to in Articles [[2016R1011_EN.18a|18a]](3) and 54(7) may be revoked at any time by the European Parliament or by the Council. A decision to revoke shall put an end to the delegation of power specified in that decision. It shall take effect on the day following the publication of the decision in the Official Journal of the European Union or on a later date specified therein. It shall not affect the validity of any delegated acts already in force.
## 4.
Before adopting a delegated act, the Commission shall consult experts designated by each Member State in accordance with the principles laid down in the Interinstitutional Agreement of 13 April 2016 on Better Law-Making.
## 5.
As soon as it adopts a delegated act, the Commission shall notify it simultaneously to the European Parliament and to the Council.
## 6.
A delegated act adopted pursuant to [[2016R1011_EN.3#2|Article 3(2)]], 13(2a), 19a(2), 19c(1), 20(6), 24(2), 27(2b), 30(2a), 30(3a), 33(7), 48i(10), 48l(3), 51(6) or 54(3) shall enter into force only if no objection has been expressed either by the European Parliament or by the Council within a period of three months of notification of that act to the European Parliament and to the Council or if, before the expiry of that period, the European Parliament and the Council have both informed the Commission that they will not object. That period shall be extended by three months at the initiative of the European Parliament or of the Council.
## 6a.
A delegated act adopted pursuant to [[2016R1011_EN.18a#3|Article 18a(3)]] or 54(7) shall enter into force only if no objection has been expressed either by the European Parliament or by the Council within a period of three months of notification of that act to the European Parliament and to the Council or if, before the expiry of that period, the European Parliament and the Council have both informed the Commission that they will not object. That period shall be extended by three months at the initiative of the European Parliament or of the Council.