---
surnom_texte_lvl1: Taxonomy
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2020R0852
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2020R0852
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2020R0852_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2020R0852_FR.23]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32020R0852).
>
> [[2020R0852_EN.22|Article 22 – Measures and penalties]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2020R0852_EN.24|Article 24 – Member State Expert Group on Sustainable Finance]]
>



# Article 23 - Exercise of the delegation

## 1.
The power to adopt delegated acts is conferred on the Commission subject to the conditions laid down in this Article.
## 2.
The power to adopt delegated acts referred to in Articles [[2020R0852_EN.8|8]](4), 10(3), 11(3), 12(2), 13(2), 14(2) and 15(2) shall be conferred on the Commission for an indeterminate period from 12 July 2020.
## 3.
The delegations of powers referred to in Articles [[2020R0852_EN.8|8]](4), 10(3), 11(3), 12(2), 13(2), 14(2) and 15(2) may be revoked at any time by the European Parliament or by the Council. A decision to revoke shall put an end to the delegation of the power specified in that decision. It shall take effect the day following the publication of the decision in the Official Journal of the European Union or at a later date specified therein. It shall not affect the validity of any delegated acts already in force.
## 4.
The Commission shall gather all necessary expertise, prior to the adoption and during the development of delegated acts, including through the consultation of the experts of the Member State Expert Group on Sustainable Finance referred to in [[2020R0852_EN.24|Article 24]]. Before adopting a delegated act, the Commission shall act in accordance with the principles and procedures laid down in the Interinstitutional Agreement of 13 April 2016 on Better Law-Making.
## 5.
As soon as it adopts a delegated act, the Commission shall notify it simultaneously to the European Parliament and to the Council.
## 6.
A delegated act adopted pursuant to [[2020R0852_EN.8#4|Article 8(4)]], 10(3), 11(3), 12(2), 13(2), 14(2) or 15(2) shall enter into force only if no objection has been expressed either by the European Parliament or by the Council within a period of four months of notification of that act to the European Parliament and the Council or if, before the expiry of that period, the European Parliament and the Council have both informed the Commission that they will not object. That period shall be extended by two months at the initiative of the European Parliament or of the Council.