---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MICA
surnom_texte_lvl2: MICA1142
texte: 2025R1142
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2023R1114
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-10
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2025R1142_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2025R1142_FR.7]]. Back to [[2023R1114_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2025/1142/oj).
>
> [[2025R1142_EN.6|Article 6 – Policies and procedures on conflicts of interest in the context of personal transactions]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2025R1142_EN.8|Article 8 – Additional requirements in relation to placing]]
>

> [!tip]- References LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2023R1114_EN.72#5]]

# Article 7 - Disclosures by the crypto-asset service provider as referred to in Article 72(2) of Regulation (EU) 2023/1114

## 1.
The disclosures made in accordance with [[2023R1114_EN.72#2|Article 72(2) of Regulation (EU) 1114/2023]] shall contain a detailed, specific and clear description of:
### (a)
the services, activities or circumstances giving rise, or which may give rise, to conflicts of interest as referred to in Article 2(1) and [[2025R1142_EN.3#1|Article 3(1)]], including the role and capacity in which the crypto-asset service provider is acting when providing the crypto-asset service to the client;
### (b)
the nature of the conflicts of interest identified;
### (c)
the risks identified in relation to the conflicts of interest referred to in Article 2(1) and [[2025R1142_EN.3#1|Article 3(1)]];
### (d)
the steps and measures taken to mitigate the identified conflicts of interest.
## 2.
The disclosures referred to in paragraph 1 shall not be considered as a sufficient way to manage and mitigate conflicts of interest.
## 3.
Crypto-asset service providers shall make available to their clients the information referred to in paragraph 1 at all times in a prominent place on their website and in formats available on any device through which the crypto-asset service is provided to the client. Where the crypto-asset service provider makes such disclosures on the relevant device, the crypto-asset service provider shall also provide a link to the same disclosures made on its website.
## 4.
Crypto-asset service providers shall keep the information referred to in [[2023R1114_EN.72#2|Article 72(2) of Regulation (EU) 1114/2023]] updated at all times.
## 5.
For the purposes of the disclosure referred to in paragraph 2, crypto-asset service providers shall keep up-to-date records of all situations giving rise to actual and potential conflicts of interest, including the relevant crypto-asset services or activities, and of the measures taken to prevent or manage such conflicts in the relevant situations. The records shall be kept for a period of 5 years.
## 6.
Crypto-asset service providers shall make the disclosures available in all languages used by them to market their services and to communicate with their clients in the relevant Member State.