---
surnom_texte_lvl1: Short
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2012R0236
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0236
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2012R0236_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2012R0236_FR.16]]. Open the [[CELEX_02012R0236-20240116_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02012R0236-20240116).
>
> [[2012R0236_EN.15|Article 15 – Buy-in procedures]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2012R0236_EN.17|Article 17 – Exemption for market making activities and primary market operations]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 2 reference(s): [[2012R0827_EN.10]], [[2012R0826_EN.6]], [[2012R0827_EN.9]], [[2012R0827_EN.12]], [[2012R0827_EN.11]]

# Article 16 - Exemption where the principal trading venue is in a third country

## 1.
Articles [[2012R0236_EN.5|5]], [[2012R0236_EN.6|6]], [[2012R0236_EN.12|12]] and [[2012R0236_EN.15|15]] shall not apply to shares of a company admitted to trading on a trading venue in the Union where the principal venue for the trading of the shares is located in a third country.
## 2.
The relevant competent authority for shares of a company that are traded on a trading venue in the Union and a venue located in a third country shall determine, at least every 2 years, whether the principal venue for the trading of those shares is located in a third country.

The relevant competent authority shall notify ESMA of any such shares identified as having their principal trading venue located in a third country.

Every 2 years ESMA shall publish the list of shares for which the principal trading venue is located in a third country. The list shall be effective for a 2-year period.
## 3.
In order to ensure consistent application of this Article, ESMA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards specifying the method for calculation of the turnover to determine the principal venue for the trading of a share.

ESMA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to the Commission by 31 March 2012.

Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in accordance with Articles [[2010R1095_EN.10|10]] to [[2010R1095_EN.14|14]] of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010.
## 4.
In order to ensure uniform conditions of application of paragraphs 1 and 2 ESMA shall develop draft implementing technical standards to determine:
### (a)
the date on which and period in respect of which any calculation determining the principal trading venue for a share is to be made;
### (b)
the date by which the relevant competent authority shall notify ESMA of those shares for which the principal trading venue is in a third country;
### (c)
the date from which the list is to be effective following publication by ESMA.

ESMA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards to the Commission by 31 March 2012.

Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the implementing technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in accordance with [[2010R1095_EN.15|Article 15 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010]].