---
surnom_texte_lvl1: Short
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2012R0236
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0236
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-06
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2012R0236_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2012R0236_FR.13]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02012R0236-20240116).
>
> [[2012R0236_EN.12|Article 12 – Restrictions on uncovered short sales in shares]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2012R0236_EN.14|Article 14 – Restrictions on uncovered sovereign credit default swaps]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 2 reference(s): [[2012R0827_EN.5]], [[2012R0827_EN.7]]# Article 13 - Restrictions on uncovered short sales in sovereign debt

## 1.
A natural or legal person may enter into a short sale of sovereign debt only where one of the following conditions is fulfilled:
### (a)
the natural or legal person has borrowed the sovereign debt or has made alternative provisions resulting in a similar legal effect;
### (b)
the natural or legal person has entered into an agreement to borrow the sovereign debt or has another absolutely enforceable claim under contract or property law to be transferred ownership of a corresponding number of securities of the same class so that settlement can be effected when it is due;
### (c)
the natural or legal person has an arrangement with a third party under which that third party has confirmed that the sovereign debt has been located or otherwise has a reasonable expectation that settlement can be effected when it is due.
## 2.
The restrictions in paragraph 1 do not apply if the transaction serves to hedge a long position in debt instruments of an issuer, the pricing of which has a high correlation with the pricing of the given sovereign debt.
## 3.
Where the liquidity of sovereign debt falls below the threshold determined in accordance with the methodology referred to in paragraph 4, the restrictions referred to in paragraph 1 may be temporarily suspended by the relevant competent authority. Before suspending those restrictions, the relevant competent authority shall notify ESMA and the other competent authorities about the proposed suspension.

A suspension shall be valid for an initial period not exceeding 6 months from the date of its publication on the website of the relevant competent authority. The suspension may be renewed for periods not exceeding 6 months if the grounds for the suspension continue to apply. If the suspension is not renewed by the end of the initial period or of any subsequent renewal period it shall automatically expire.

ESMA shall, within 24 hours of notification by the relevant competent authority, issue an opinion based on paragraph 4 on the notified suspension or renewal of suspension. The opinion shall be published on ESMA’s website.
## 4.
The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with [[2012R0236_EN.42|Article 42]] specifying the parameters and methods for calculating the threshold of liquidity referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article in relation to issued sovereign debt.

The parameters and methods for Member States to calculate the threshold shall be set in such a way that where it is reached, it represents a significant decline relative to the average level of liquidity for the sovereign debt concerned.

The threshold shall be defined based on objective criteria specific to the relevant sovereign debt market, including the total amount of outstanding issued sovereign debt for each sovereign issuer.
## 5.
In order to ensure uniform conditions of application of paragraph 1, ESMA may develop draft implementing technical standards to determine the types of agreements or arrangements that adequately ensure that the sovereign debt will be available for settlement. ESMA shall, in particular, take into account the need to preserve liquidity of markets, especially sovereign bond and sovereign bond repurchase markets.

ESMA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards to the Commission by 31 March 2012.

Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the implementing technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in accordance with [[2010R1095_EN.15|Article 15 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010]].