---
surnom_texte_lvl1: Short
surnom_texte_lvl2: 
texte: 2012R0236
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 1
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0236
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2012R0236_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2012R0236_FR.9]]. Open the [[CELEX_02012R0236-20240116_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02012R0236-20240116).
>
> [[2012R0236_EN.8|Article 8 – Notification to competent authorities of uncovered positions in sovereign credit default swaps]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2012R0236_EN.10|Article 10 – Application of notification and disclosure requirements]]
>

> [!tip]- Références LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 2 reference(s): [[2012R0827_EN.2]], [[2012R0826_EN.3]], [[2012R0826_EN.2]]

# Article 9 - Method of notification and disclosure

## 1.
Any notification or disclosure under [[2012R0236_EN.5|Article 5]], 6, 7 or 8 shall set out details of the identity of the natural or legal person who holds the relevant position, the size of the relevant position, the issuer in relation to which the relevant position is held and the date on which the relevant position was created, changed or ceased to be held.

For the purposes of Articles [[2012R0236_EN.5|5]], [[2012R0236_EN.6|6]], [[2012R0236_EN.7|7]] and [[2012R0236_EN.8|8]], natural and legal persons that hold significant net short positions shall keep, for a period of 5 years, records of the gross positions which make a significant net short position.
## 2.
The relevant time for calculation of a net short position shall be at midnight at the end of the trading day on which the natural or legal person holds the relevant position. That time shall apply to all transactions irrespective of the means of trading used, including transactions executed through manual or automated trading, and irrespective of whether the transactions have taken place during normal trading hours. The notification or disclosure shall be made not later than at 15.30 on the following trading day. The times specified in this paragraph shall be calculated according to the time in the Member State of the relevant competent authority to whom the relevant position must be notified.
## 3.
The notification of information to a relevant competent authority shall ensure the confidentiality of the information and incorporate mechanisms for authenticating the source of the notification.
## 4.
The public disclosure of information set out in [[2012R0236_EN.6|Article 6]] shall be made in a manner ensuring fast access to information on a non-discriminatory basis. That information shall be posted on a central website operated or supervised by the relevant competent authority. The competent authorities shall communicate the address of that website to ESMA, which, in turn, shall put a link to all such central websites on its own website.
## 5.
In order to ensure consistent application of this Article, ESMA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards specifying the details of the information to be provided for the purposes of paragraph 1.

ESMA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to the Commission by 31 March 2012.

Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in accordance with Articles [[2010R1095_EN.10|10]] to [[2010R1095_EN.14|14]] of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010.
## 6.
In order to ensure uniform conditions of application of paragraph 4, ESMA shall develop draft implementing technical standards specifying the means by which information may be disclosed to the public.

ESMA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards to the Commission by 31 March 2012.

Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the implementing technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in accordance with [[2010R1095_EN.15|Article 15 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010]].