---
surnom_texte_lvl1: BMR
surnom_texte_lvl2: ESG disclosure
texte: 2020R1816
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2016R1011
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2020R1816_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2020R1816_FR.2]]. Back to [[2016R1011_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Open the [[CELEX_32020R1816_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32020R1816).
>
> [[2020R1816_EN.1|Article 1 – Definitions]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2020R1816_EN.3|Article 3 – Update of the explanation provided]]
>



# Article 2 - Explanation of how ESG factors are reflected in each benchmark or family of benchmarks

## 1.
Benchmark administrators shall explain in the benchmark statement, using the template laid down in Annex I, how the environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors listed in Annex II are reflected in each benchmark or family of benchmarks they provide and publish.
The requirement set out in the first subparagraph shall not apply to interest rate and foreign exchange benchmarks.
## 2.
The explanation referred to in paragraph 1 shall include the score of the ESG factors
vis-à-vis

the corresponding benchmark and family of benchmark, at an aggregated weighted average value.
## 3.
For individual benchmarks, benchmark administrators may, rather than providing all the information required by the template laid down in Annex I to this Regulation, replace that information by a hyperlink included in the benchmark statement, to a website that contains all that information.
## 4.
Where benchmarks blend different underlying assets, benchmark administrators shall explain how ESG factors are reflected for each of the underlying assets.
## 5.
Benchmark administrators shall include in the explanation provided a reference to the sources of data and standards used for the ESG factors disclosed.
## 6.
Benchmark administrators that disclose additional ESG factors in accordance with Article 1(4) of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2020/1817

shall include the score of those additional ESG factors.