---
surnom_texte_lvl1: MICA
surnom_texte_lvl2: MICA294
texte: 2025R0294
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2023R1114
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-09
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2025R0294_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2025R0294_FR.5]]. Back to [[2023R1114_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg_del/2025/0294/oj).
>
> [[2025R0294_EN.4|Article 4 – Acknowledgment of receipt of a complaint and verification of its admissibility]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2025R0294_EN.6|Article 6 – Decisions]]
>

> [!tip]- References LVL1 <=> LVL2
> Level 1 reference(s): [[2023R1114_EN.71#5]]# Article 5 - Investigation of complaints

## 1.
Upon receipt of an admissible complaint, crypto-asset service providers shall, without undue delay after acknowledging receipt of the complaint, assess whether the complaint is clear and complete. In particular, crypto asset service providers shall assess whether the complaint contains all information required. Where a crypto-asset service provider concludes that a complaint is unclear or incomplete, it shall request any additional information necessary for the proper handling of the complaint.
## 2.
Crypto-asset service providers shall seek to gather and examine all relevant information regarding a complaint. Crypto asset service providers shall not require from the complainant information that is already in their possession or that is legally required to be in their possession. Crypto-asset service providers shall keep the complainant duly informed about any additional steps taken to handle the complaint. Crypto asset service providers shall reply to reasonable information requests made by the complainant without any undue delay.