---
surnom_texte_lvl1: EMIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: EMIR1
texte: 2012R0648EMIR1
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 4
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0648
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-05
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2012R0648EMIR1_FR.41]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32012R0648).
>
> [[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.40|Article 40 – Exposure management]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.42|Article 42 – Default fund]]
>

# Article 41 - Margin requirements

## 1.
A *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(1)|CCP]]* shall impose, call and collect margins to limit its credit exposures from its *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(14)|clearing members]]* and, where relevant, from *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(1)|CCPs]]* with which it has *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(12)|interoperability arrangements]]*. Such margins shall be sufficient to cover potential exposures that the *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(1)|CCP]]* estimates will occur until the liquidation of the relevant positions. They shall also be sufficient to cover losses that result from at least 99 % of the exposures movements over an appropriate time horizon and they shall ensure that a *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(1)|CCP]]* fully collateralises its exposures with all its *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(14)|clearing members]]*, and, where relevant, with *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(1)|CCPs]]* with which it has *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(12)|interoperability arrangements]]*, at least on a daily basis. A *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(1)|CCP]]* shall regularly monitor and, if necessary, revise the level of its margins to reflect current market conditions taking into account any potentially procyclical effects of such revisions.
## 2.
A *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(1)|CCP]]* shall adopt models and parameters in setting its margin requirements that capture the risk characteristics of the products cleared and take into account the interval between margin collections, market liquidity and the possibility of changes over the duration of the transaction. The models and parameters shall be validated by the *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(13)|competent authority]]* and subject to an opinion in accordance with [[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.19|Article 19]].
## 3.
A *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(1)|CCP]]* shall call and collect margins on an intraday basis, at least when predefined thresholds are exceeded.
## 4.
A *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(1)|CCP]]* shall call and collect margins that are adequate to cover the risk stemming from the positions registered in each account kept in accordance with [[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.39|Article 39]] with respect to specific financial instruments. A *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(1)|CCP]]* may calculate margins with respect to a portfolio of financial instruments provided that the methodology used is prudent and robust.
## 5.
In order to ensure consistent application of this Article, ESMA shall, after consulting EBA and the ESCB, develop draft regulatory technical standards specifying the appropriate percentage and time horizons for the liquidation period and the calculation of historical volatility, as referred to in paragraph 1, to be considered for the different classes of financial instruments, taking into account the objective to limit procyclicality, and the conditions under which portfolio margining practices referred to in paragraph 4 can be implemented.
ESMA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to the Commission by 30 September 2012.

Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in accordance with Articles [[2010R1095_EN.10|10]] to [[2010R1095_EN.14|14]] of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010.