---
surnom_texte_lvl1: EMIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: EMIR1
texte: 2012R0648EMIR1
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 4
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0648
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2012R0648EMIR1_FR.21]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32012R0648).
>
> [[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.20|Article 20 – Withdrawal of authorisation]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.22|Article 22 – Competent authority]]
>

# Article 21 - Review and evaluation

## 1.
Without prejudice to the role of the college, the competent authorities referred to in [[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.22|Article 22]] shall review the arrangements, strategies, processes and mechanisms implemented by *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(1)|CCPs]]* to comply with this Regulation and evaluate the risks to which *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(1)|CCPs]]* are, or might be, exposed.
## 2.
The review and evaluation referred to in paragraph 1 shall cover all the requirements on *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(1)|CCPs]]* laid down in this Regulation.
## 3.
The competent authorities shall establish the frequency and depth of the review and evaluation referred to in paragraph 1 having regard to the size, systemic importance, nature, scale and complexity of the activities of the *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(1)|CCPs]]* concerned. The review and evaluation shall be updated at least on an annual basis.
The *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(1)|CCPs]]* shall be subject to on-site inspections.
## 4.
The competent authorities shall regularly, and at least annually, inform the college of the results of the review and evaluation as referred to in paragraph 1, including any remedial action taken or penalty imposed.
## 5.
The competent authorities shall require any *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(1)|CCP]]* that does not meet the requirements laid down in this Regulation to take the necessary action or steps at an early stage to address the situation.
## 6.
ESMA shall fulfil a coordination role between competent authorities and across colleges with a view to building a common supervisory culture and consistent supervisory practices, ensuring uniform procedures and consistent approaches, and strengthening consistency in supervisory outcomes.
For the purposes of the first subparagraph, ESMA shall, at least annually:
### (a)
conduct a peer review analysis of the supervisory activities of all competent authorities in relation to the authorisation and the supervision of *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(1)|CCPs]]* in accordance with [[2010R1095_EN.30|Article 30 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010]]; and
### (b)
initiate and coordinate Union-wide assessments of the resilience of *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(1)|CCPs]]* to adverse market developments in accordance with [[2010R1095_EN.32#2|Article 32(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010]].

Where an assessment referred to in point (b) of the second subparagraph exposes shortcomings in the resilience of one or more *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(1)|CCPs]]*, ESMA shall issue the necessary recommendations pursuant to [[2010R1095_EN.16|Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010]].