---
surnom_texte_lvl1: EMIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: EMIR1
texte: 2012R0648EMIR1
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 4
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0648
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-09
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2012R0648EMIR1_FR.56]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32012R0648).
>
> [[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.55|Article 55 – Registration of a trade repository]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.57|Article 57 – Notification of and consultation with competent authorities prior to registration]]
>

# Article 56 - Application for registration

## 1.
A *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(2)|trade repository]]* shall submit an application for registration to ESMA.
## 2.
ESMA shall assess whether the application is complete within 20 working days of receipt of the application.
Where the application is not complete, ESMA shall set a deadline by which the *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(2)|trade repository]]* is to provide additional information.

After assessing an application as complete, ESMA shall notify the *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(2)|trade repository]]* accordingly.
## 3.
In order to ensure consistent application of this Article, ESMA shall develop draft regulatory technical standards specifying the details of the application for registration referred to in paragraph 1.
ESMA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to the Commission by 30 September 2012.

Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in accordance with Articles [[2010R1095_EN.10|10]] to [[2010R1095_EN.14|14]] of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010.
## 4.
In order to ensure uniform conditions of application of paragraph 1, ESMA shall develop draft implementing technical standards specifying the format of the application for registration to ESMA.
ESMA shall submit those draft implementing technical standards to the Commission by 30 September 2012.

Power is conferred on the Commission to adopt the implementing technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in accordance with [[2010R1095_EN.15|Article 15 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010]].