---
surnom_texte_lvl1: EMIR
surnom_texte_lvl2: EMIR1
texte: 2012R0648EMIR1
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 4
if_level_2_text_level1: 2012R0648
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-09
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2012R0648EMIR1_FR.26]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32012R0648).
>
> [[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.25|Article 25 – Recognition of a third-country CCP]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.27|Article 27 – Senior management and the board]]
>

# Article 26 - General provisions

## 1.
A *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(1)|CCP]]* shall have robust governance arrangements, which include a clear organisational structure with well-defined, transparent and consistent lines of responsibility, effective processes to identify, manage, monitor and report the risks to which it is or might be exposed, and adequate internal *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(23)|control]]* mechanisms, including sound administrative and accounting procedures.
## 2.
A *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(1)|CCP]]* shall adopt policies and procedures which are sufficiently effective so as to ensure compliance with this Regulation, including compliance of its managers and employees with all the provisions of this Regulation.
## 3.
A *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(1)|CCP]]* shall maintain and operate an organisational structure that ensures continuity and orderly functioning in the performance of its services and activities. It shall employ appropriate and proportionate systems, resources and procedures.
## 4.
A *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(1)|CCP]]* shall maintain a clear separation between the reporting lines for risk management and those for the other operations of the *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(1)|CCP]]*.
## 5.
A *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(1)|CCP]]* shall adopt, implement and maintain a remuneration policy which promotes sound and effective risk management and which does not create incentives to relax risk standards.
## 6.
A *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(1)|CCP]]* shall maintain information technology systems adequate to deal with the complexity, variety and type of services and activities performed so as to ensure high standards of security and the integrity and confidentiality of the information maintained.
## 7.
A *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(1)|CCP]]* shall make its governance arrangements, the rules governing the *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(1)|CCP]]*, and its admission criteria for *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(3)|clearing]]* membership, available publicly free of charge.
## 8.
The *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(1)|CCP]]* shall be subject to frequent and independent audits. The results of those audits shall be communicated to the *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(27)|board]]* and shall be made available to the *[[2012R0648EMIR1_EN.2#(13)|competent authority]]*.
## 9.
In order to ensure consistent application of this Article, ESMA, after consulting the members of the ESCB, shall develop draft regulatory technical standards specifying the minimum content of the rules and governance arrangements referred to in paragraphs 1 to 8.
ESMA shall submit those draft regulatory technical standards to the Commission by 30 September 2012.

Power is delegated to the Commission to adopt the regulatory technical standards referred to in the first subparagraph in accordance with Articles [[2010R1095_EN.10|10]] to [[2010R1095_EN.14|14]] of Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010.