---
surnom_texte_lvl1: UCITS
surnom_texte_lvl2: DAC 75(4)
texte: 2010R0583
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2009L0065
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2010R0583_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2010R0583_FR.36]]. Back to [[2009L0065_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Open the [[CELEX_32010R0583_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32010R0583).
>
> [[2010R0583_EN.35|Article 35 – Past performance]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2010R0583_EN.37|Article 37 – Length]]
>



# Article 36 - Performance scenarios

## 1.
The key investor information document for structured UCITS shall not contain the ‘Past performance’ section.
For the purposes of this Section, structured UCITS shall be understood as UCITS which provide investors, at certain predetermined dates, with algorithm-based payoffs that are linked to the performance, or to the realisation of price changes or other conditions, of financial assets, indices or reference portfolios or UCITS with similar features.
## 2.
For structured UCITS, the ‘Objectives and investment policy’ section of the key investor information document shall include an explanation of how the formula works or how the pay-off is calculated.
## 3.
The explanation referred to in paragraph 2 shall be accompanied by an illustration, showing at least three scenarios of the UCITS’ potential performance. Appropriate scenarios shall be chosen to show the circumstances in which the formula may generate a low, a medium or a high return, including, where applicable, a negative return for the investor.
## 4.
The scenarios referred to in paragraph 3 shall enable the investor to understand fully all the effects of the calculation mechanism embedded in the formula.
They shall be presented in a way that is fair, clear and not misleading, and that is likely to be understood by the average retail investor. In particular, they shall not artificially magnify the importance of the final performance of the UCITS.
## 5.
The scenarios referred to in paragraph 3 shall be based on reasonable and conservative assumptions about future market conditions and price movements.
However, whenever the formula exposes investors to the possibility of substantial losses, such as a capital guarantee that functions only under certain circumstances, these losses shall be appropriately illustrated, even if the probability of the corresponding market conditions is low.
## 6.
The scenarios referred to in paragraph 3 shall be accompanied by a statement that they are examples that are included to illustrate the formula, and do not represent a forecast of what might happen. It shall be made clear that the scenarios shown may not have an equal probability of occurrence.