---
surnom_texte_lvl1: UCITS
surnom_texte_lvl2: DAC 75(4)
texte: 2010R0583
consolidated: False
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2009L0065
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2010R0583_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2010R0583_FR.15]]. Back to [[2009L0065_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Open the [[CELEX_32010R0583_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]]. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32010R0583).
>
> [[2010R0583_EN.14|Article 14 – Cross-referencing]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2010R0583_EN.16|Article 16 – Past performance calculation methodology]]
>



# Article 15 - Presentation of past performance

## 1.
The information about the past performance of the UCITS shall be presented in a bar chart covering the performance of the UCITS for the last 10 years.
The size of the bar chart referred to in the first subparagraph shall allow for legibility, but shall under no circumstances exceed half a page in the key investor information document.
## 2.
UCITS with performance of less than 5 complete calendar years shall use a presentation covering the last 5 years only.
## 3.
For any years for which data is not available, the year shall be shown as blank with no annotation other than the date.
## 4.
For a UCITS which does not yet have performance data for one complete calendar year, a statement shall be included explaining that there is insufficient data to provide a useful indication of past performance to investors.
## 5.
The bar chart layout shall be supplemented by statements which appear prominently and which:
### (a)
warn about its limited value as a guide to future performance;
### (b)
indicate briefly which charges and fees have been included or excluded from the calculation of past performance;
### (c)
indicate the year in which the fund came into existence;
### (d)
indicate the currency in which past performance has been calculated.

The requirement laid down in point (b) shall not apply to UCITS which do not have entry or exit charges.
## 6.
A key investor information document shall not contain any record of past performance for any part of the current calendar year.