---
surnom_texte_lvl1: UCITS
surnom_texte_lvl2: DAC 43(5)
texte: 2010L0044
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2009L0065
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-08
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2010L0044_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2010L0044_FR.23]]. Back to [[2009L0065_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Direct link to [EUR-LEX](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02010L0044-20100710).
>
> [[2010L0044_EN.22|Article 22 – Application for approval]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2010L0044_EN.24|Article 24 – Content of the information-sharing agreement between depositaries]]
>

# Article 23 - Approval

## 1.
The feeder UCITS shall be informed within 15 working days following the complete submission of the documents referred to in [[2010L0044_EN.22#1#a|Article 22(1)(a)]] to (c) respectively, whether the competent authorities have granted the required approvals.
## 2.
Upon receipt of the information that the competent authorities have granted approval according to paragraph 1, the feeder UCITS shall inform the master UCITS of it.
## 3.
After the feeder UCITS has been informed that the competent authorities have granted the necessary approvals pursuant to Article 22(1)(b) of this Directive, the feeder UCITS shall take the necessary measures to comply with the requirements of Article 64 of Directive 2009/65/EC without undue delay.
## 4.
In the cases of [[2010L0044_EN.22#1#b|Article 22(1)(b)]] and (c) of this Directive, the feeder UCITS shall exercise the right to request repurchase and redemption of its units in the master UCITS in accordance with the third subparagraph of Article 60(5) and Article 45(1) of Directive 2009/65/EC, where the competent authorities of the feeder UCITS have not granted the necessary approvals required pursuant to Article 22(1) of this Directive by the working day preceding the last day on which the feeder UCITS can request repurchase and redemption of its units in the master UCITS before the merger or division is effected.

The feeder UCITS shall also exercise this right in order to ensure that the right of its own unit-holders to request repurchase or redemption of their units in the feeder UCITS according to Article 64(1)(d) of Directive 2009/65/EC is not affected.

Before exercising the right referred to in the first subparagraph, the feeder UCITS shall consider available alternative solutions which may help to avoid or reduce transaction costs or other negative impacts for its own unit-holders.
## 5.
Where the feeder UCITS requests repurchase or redemption of its units in the master UCITS, it shall receive one of the following:
### (a)
the repurchase or redemption proceeds in cash;
### (b)
some or all of the repurchase or redemption proceeds as a transfer in kind where the feeder UCITS so wishes and where the agreement between the feeder UCITS and the master UCITS provides for it.

Where point (b) of the first subparagraph applies, the feeder UCITS may realise any part of the transferred assets for cash at any time.
## 6.
The competent authorities of the feeder UCITS shall grant approval on the condition that any cash held or received in accordance with paragraph 5 may be re-invested only for the purpose of efficient cash management before the date on which the feeder UCITS is to start to invest either in the new master UCITS or in accordance with its new investment objectives and policy.