---
surnom_texte_lvl1: PRIIPS
surnom_texte_lvl2: PRIIPS653
texte: 2017R0653
consolidated: True
in_force: true
level: 2
if_level_2_text_level1: 2014R1286
langue: EN
version: 1
last_update: 2026-06-01
---
> [!info]+
> 🔗 Back to [[2017R0653_EN.0|Summary]]. 🇫🇷 French Version: [[2017R0653_FR.14 ter]]. Back to [[2014R1286_EN.0|Summary]] of LVL1. Open the [[CELEX_02017R0653-20230101_EN_TXT.pdf|PDF]].
>
> [[2017R0653_EN.14a|Article 14a – Investment compartments of UCITS or AIFs]] ⬅️ | ➡️ [[2017R0653_EN.14c|Article 14c – UCITS or AIFs as fund of funds]]
>



# Article 14b - Share classes of UCITS or AIFs

## 1.
Where a UCITS or AIF consists of more than one class of units or shares, the key information document shall be prepared for each class of units or shares.
## 2.
The key information document pertinent to two or more classes of the same UCITS or AIF may be combined into a single key information document, provided that the resulting document fully complies with all requirements on length, language and presentation of the key information document.
## 3.
The UCITS management company or AIFM may select a class to represent one or more other classes of the UCITS or AIF, provided the choice is fair, clear and not misleading to potential retail investors in those other classes. In such cases, the section entitled ‘What are the risks and what could I get in return?’ of the key information document shall contain the explanation of material risk applicable to any of the other classes being represented. A key information document based on the representative class may be provided to retail investors in the other classes.
## 4.
Different classes shall not be combined into a composite representative class as referred to in paragraph 3.
## 5.
The UCITS management company or AIFM shall keep a record of which other classes are represented by the representative class referred to in paragraph 3 and the grounds justifying that choice.
## 6.
Where applicable, the section entitled ‘What is this product?’ of the key information document shall be supplemented by an indication of which class has been selected as representative, using the term by which it is designated in the UCITS’ prospectus or in the description of the investment strategy and objectives of the AIF.
## 7.
That section shall also indicate where retail investors can obtain information about the other classes of the UCITS or AIF that are marketed in their own Member State.